31 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. Senators. John Gushing, 372 ; Woobury Storer, 342 ; Daniel Usley, 221 ; Isaac Parsons, 194 ; Lathrop Lewis, 11 ; Nathaniel C. Allen, 4 ; Ammi R. Mitchell, 2 ; Isaac Parker, 1 ; William Symmes, 1. Among other subjects brought before this meeting was one relative to public walks. But, to the regret of the present generation, no action was taken upon it. Died, in Boothbay, Mr. Samuel Barter, aged 105 years. May 14. The following gentlemen were chosen as May- Representatives to the General Court : Portland. Joseph Titcomb, William Symmes, Dan iel Tucker, Matthew Cobb. Falmouth. Archelaus Lewis, Noiih Yarmouth. Ammi R. Mitchell. Scarborough. Col. Larrabee Neio Gloucester. Joseph E. Foxcroft. July 4. This day was observed by the usual dem- July onstrations of joy. A procession was formed, escorted by the Portland Artillery, commanded by James D. Hopkins,1 Esq. which proceeded to the church of the i James D. Hopkins was born at Axminister, England, and came to Portland when quite young, with his father. He studied law in the office of Daniel Davis. Being a close student, when admitted to the Cumberland bar, he at once took a high stand. Mr. Hopkins died June 17, 1840, aged 68 years. He was thrice married. His first wife was Mary Bagley, to whom he was married in January, 1802, who died in the March following. To his second wife, Dor- cas Tucker, he was married in Decem- ber, 1804. She died in June, 1816. To his third wife, Louisa H. Crabtree, he was married in 1822. She died in October, 1848. Mr. Hopkins, at the time of his death, had nearly complet- ed a work on Insurance. He also left a wTork in manuscript, in two volumes. It is a fiction founded upon the early history of Falmouth. His published works are — " An Oration pronounced before the Portland Lodge of Free and Accepted Ancient Masons," June 24th, 1801 ; "An Oration pronounced be- fore the inhabitants of Portland, July 4th, 1805;" and "An Address to the members of Cumberland Bar," deliv- ered at Portland, June term, 1833. 5Mr. Hopkins left three children — Ma- ry E. who married James G. Norcross of Lowell, Mass. ; Susan P. who mar- ried St. John Smith of Portland ; Dor- cas, who married Elias Banks of Port- land.