46 GEORGE BURROUGHS. 1676 1680 to Pvdounce [the Providence] of our Lord God and desire your prayers also for us. Yours in all humility to sarve in the Lord, Brian Pendleton.1 Mr. Burroughs went to Salem village, Danvers, and succeeded Mr. Bayley in November, 1680. His sala ry was sixty pounds a year, to be paid Mm, one third in money, and two thirds in provisions, as follows : rye, barley, and malt at tM'ee shillings a bushel, corn at two shillings, beef at one and a half pence a pound, pork at two pence and butter at six pence. In conse quence of some dispute with his parish, he left them, and in May, 1683, Mr. Lawson was invited to fill Ms place. The same year, Mr. Burroughs returned to Falmouth. At a general meeting of the inhabitants, held the 20th of June, 1683, the following record is made : " Whereas there was formerly given to Mr. George Burroughs, minister, a parcel of land, judged to be about two hundred acres, and we being driven off by the Indians for a time, and in time reinhabit ing: therefore, for to give people incouragement to come and settle down among us in a body, we took i Brian Pendleton settled in Water- town about the year 1630, when he was thirty-one years of age.. For six years he represented the town in the General Court. He afterwards re- moved to Portsmouth and engaged in commerce. He represented that town for five years. 5He purchased two hundred acres of land in Saco, near Winter Harbor, where he settled in 1665. He was appointed Seargent- major of the military and held several offices under President Danforth's ad- ministration. He died in 1681, aged eighty; leaving two children. Bis son James removed to Stonington, Conn., and died, leaving four sons and one daughter, who married, in 1665, Rev. Seth Fletcher, minister of Wells, and who was afterwards settled in Sa- co. Pendleton Fletcher, their only child, was taken captive no less than four times by the Indians, and when he died, in 1 747, he left six sons, whose descendants have spread over the Union.