27 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. woman made a remark, which he thought reflected up- ?t^ on himself, when he immediately replied : If I had spoke before my birth, I'd please the prettiest lass on earth ! Mr. George was an agreeable companion and an hon est man.1 February 5. A fire was discovered in the dwelling Feb house of Mr. Michael Duley, which was extinguished without much damage. February 25. There was an alarm of fire last eve ning. It originated in Mr. Griffin's shoe store, Jones's Row. The damage was trifling. February 29. Last evening, at Freeport Landing, 1 Besides his other attainments, Mr. George possessed quite a poetical tal ent. The following " Elegy on the death of two Favorite Thrashes," was written by him several years before his death : Begin, my muse, the mournful strain, 0 ! let me not implore in vain, Thy verse inspiring power ; My grief an ample theme affords, But how shall I pronounce the words, My thrushes are no more ! Both, both my darling birds are gone : Had cruel death but spared me one, I scarcely would repine ; But both are "dead! 0 ! fate unkind! What pangs of grief distract my mind ! Nor hopes of joy are mine. How would my little warblers come, And tamely sit upon my thumb, Well pleased, and sweetly sing : The moments softly rolled away, And gloomy winter seemed like May, The flowery month of Spring. And when the violin was played, _ They'd always lend their softer aid, "To grace the enchanting sound ; No evil genius could be near, While music charmed the listening ear Of every subject round. But now my favorite birds are gone, And I most feelingly bemoan Their fate in pensive strain : To books I fly to seek relief, And ease my heart-corroding grief; But all, alas, in vain I Nor Milton, Addison, nor Pope, Affords one cheering ray of hope, Though I their works explore ; Nor violin's melodious tone, Has power to charm; my birds are gone, And music is no more. Come, all you little winged loves, That haunt the valleys and the groves, And drop a friendly tear : Ye thrushes — birds of sweetest lays, Robins and sparrows, larks and jays, Attend the solemn bier. Not one of all your feathered throng, Could, like my thrushes, chant a song, So pleasing to the ear ; Nor could the famed Canary bird, Such sweet variety afford, So musical and clear. And now, in soft elysian shades, Where no fell accident invades, By mortal eye unseen, They sing in more exalted strains, And freely roam o'er hills and plains, Through groves forever green.