44 GEORGE BURROUGHS. 1 676 ly sent a letter to Henry Jocelyn,1 of Black Point, for assistance. On the receipt of this letter Major Brian Pendleton, of Saco, addressed a line to the " Honour ed Governor and Counsell for the Matachusets at Bos ton, with all speed," dated " Winter Harbour, at night, the 13 of August, 1676," of which the following is a copy: Honoured Governor, TOGETHER WITH THE CoUNSELL : I am sorry my pen must bee the messenger of soe greate a tragedye. On the 11 of this instance wee heard of many killed of our naybors in Falmouth, or Casco Bay; and on the 12 instant, Mr. Joslyn sent mee a briefe letter written from under the hands of Mr. Burras. [Burroughs.] Hee gives an account of 32 killed and carried away by the Indians : Mmselfe escaped to an Island, but I hope Black poynt men have 1 This name is sometimes spelt Jos- sclyn, Joscelyn, and Joslin. Henry Jocelyn came from England, about the year 1634. He was one of the commissioners of Gorges's court, held at Saco in March, 1636 — this being the first organized government in the State. When 55Mr. Vines left the coun- try, so high was the standing of 5Mr. Jocelyn that he was appointed Depu- ty Governor the remainder of the year. About the year 1643, he remov- ed to Prout's neck, Scarborough, where he lived for a period of twenty-five years. When the king's commission- ers, in 1665, undertook to form a gov- ernment for Maine and Sagadahock, he was appointed Senior Justice for both Provinces. In 1668, when Mas- sachusetts resumed her authority, he retired to Pemaquid, where he lived till the breaking out of King Philip's war in 1675, when he removed to the Plymouth colony and there passed the remainder of his days. Mr. Jocelyn married the widow of Thomas Com- mock — who had a grant in 1630 of fifteen hundred acres between the riv- er Spurwink and Black Point, includ- ing Stratton's Island, now known ley the name of Bluff Island. Commock died on a voyage to the West Indies in 1643, having previously conveyed five hundred acres of his estate to his wife, and the residue to Henry Joce- lyn — he dying childless. Previous to the removal of Jocelyn from Prout's neck, he became embarrassed in his circumstances and assigned his prop- erty to Joshua Scottow of Boston, who afterwards occupied the estate. Mr. Jocelyn left one son, Henry, who became the father of thirteen children. While 5Mr. Jocelyn resided at Prout's neck, his brother John spent nearly a year with him, collecting facts for a work, now very rare, entitled " Voyag- es," published about the year 1672.