TO THE DESCENDANTS OF THE PILGRIMS- The author of the " Chronicles " intends to make a wprk that will be interesting and valuable, not only to the descendants of the early settlers of Casco Bay; but to all who feel in terested in the history of. our pilgrim fathers. His work will be issued in numbers like the present, as often as circumstances will admit,and no pains will be spared to make it as free from mistakes. and errors as it is possible to make a work of this character. The book, will contain, at least, five hun dred pages. It is his intention to chronicle all the events of importance that have transpired from the first settlement of Casco Bay to the present time — inclu ding the early marriages, births, and deaths, and genealogies, of families. The materials in his possession have been gathered from various sources and it has occupied more or less of his time for many years past. Histories of individuals and events, when of suf ficient- length and interest, will form distinct chapters, as in the present number. Yet more facts and more documents are desirable. We would particularly request those who h^ivc letters or pa pers of any description whatever, rel ative to our ancestors, Or any interest ing facts in their possession, to com municate the same to the publishers of this work. Of however trifling value they may appear to them, we trust they yill not withhold them. We would also request lists of the early military companies — of minis- ters* and church members — of school masters and scholars, and of .individu- als who have in any way distinguished themselves. We should.be happy to receive cop , ies of old deeds, wills, commissions, or journals which may have been kept by families or individuals, whether for one month or for a series of years. Also, genealogies of the early settlers of Casco Bay. Letters or documents thrown aside in old chests and garrets, where they have lain for scores of years, may be invaluable to us. Will those who have papers left by their ■ ancestors, bring them to the light and send them to the publishers of the " Chronicles " f A short delay may be the means of losing many interest- ing and valuable documents. In our next number will be com- menced a valuable and interesting. journal, kept during the revolutionary times, by Mr. William Moody of Port- land, who was a member of Capt. Bradish's Company, that was ordered to Cambridge in' 1775. Can any one furnish us with the list of Captain Lowell'-s company of 1775 ?— of a copy of Pitchwood Hill, by Dr. Dean"? — of files, or parts of files of Portland papers,' previous to the year 1800? All communications, relative to the design of this work, addressed to Messrs: Saxeokn- & Carter, will be thankfully received. March, 1850.