24 ATTACK OF THE INDIANS ON FALMOUTH. 1676 band and carried away — he being unable to render them any assistance. One child, on seeing its father, made an effort to run to him in the water, but an In dian seized him and took him away. Mr. Potts at tempted to fire at the savage, but fearing he might kill his child he forebore. Two or three Indians were killed by shots from the garrison. One lad killed sev eral. A few of the English, in escaping from the Is land in a canoe towards Richmond's Island, met a small vessel, and to the men on board, they made known the situation of the people, who immediately went to their assistance and took them off. The In dians soon after appeared at Spurwink where they killed one man, wounded another and took one captive. On the 12th of October an assault was made on Black Point, in Scarborough, by Mugg,1 a cMef among the Androscoggin Indians, who was assisted with near ly a hundred warriors. The English, being gathered in one fortified place, might have easily driven off the savages ; but while the captain, Mr. Josselyn, went out to consult with Mugg, the people fled in fear from the garrison and took most of their effects with them. Not being able to make resistance on his return, as he i At the close of the war, Mugg was sent by Madokawando, chief of the Penobscot tribe of Indians, to Piscata- qua, to receive proposals from the En- glish, as the latter desired to treat about peace. The Penobscot chief had about sixty English captives at tins period. That Mugg might be kindly received, a captive accompanied him, who was to return to his home. Upon Mugg's arrival, he was seized by General Gen- da], of Massachusetts, forced on board of his vessel and carried to Boston. Madokawando's ambassador was now obliged to treat on such terms as the English proposed, and it is not singu- lar that when he was released, the In- dians should still continue enemies to the English. About one year from this time, Mugg appeared at Black Point and for three days beseiged the garrison, and killed three men. Mugg was accompanied by Symon, who had previously done so much mischief in Casco and other places. Lieutenant Tippin, the commander of the garri- son, made a successful shot and killed an Indian, who it was afterwards as- certained to be the daring Mugg.