21 ATTACK OF THE INDIANS ON FALMOUTH. 1 676 Anthony Brackets was not killed, but, with his fam ily, was taken prisoner. The manner of his escape is related by Hubbard.1 The Indians that led them captive, having brought them to the north side of Casco Bay, news was brought to them of the surprisal of Arowsic's house in Kenne bec, with all the stores therein, which did so rejoice them, that they made all haste -to share in the good things there to be had. Thus eager to be gone, they promised Brackett and his wife that they also should have a share therein if they would make haste after them, bringing along a burthen allotted to each of them. The woman having a little before observed an old birch canoe lying by the water side, hoped it was an opportunity Providence offered for their escape ; whereupon she first prudently asked the Indians to let the negro, their own servant, ( at the same thne car ried captive by them,) help them to carry their bur then, which was granted ; then she begged of them a piece or two of meat, wMch was not denied them. Thus being furnished with help and provision, the In dians leaving them behind to come after with their several burthens, and a young child, they could not but look upon it as a nidus Divinus, to bid them sMft i William Hubbard was a minister of Ipswich, Mass. He was born in the year 1621, and graduated at Har- vard college, in the first class, in 1642. He was ordained about the year 1657, as colleague with Rev. Mr. Cobbet. He wrote a History of New England, for which he received from the State fifty pounds. His other publications were — an election sermon, entitled " The Happiness of a People in the Wisdom of their Rulers Directing and in the Obedience of their Brethren : " " The Present State of New England, being a Narrative of the Troubles with the Indians from the first Plant- ing thereof in 1607 to 1677, but chief- ly of the two last years, 1675 and 1676, to which is added a Discourse about the war with the Pequots : " a Fast Sermon: a Funeral Discourse on Gen. Denison : " A Testimony to the Order of the Gospel in the church- es of New England with 5Mr. Higgin- son." Mr. Hubbard died in the year 1704, at the advanced age of 82.