34 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. 1 804 Sept. Sept. land, to be connected with Montreal. At that day railroads were not thought of. Hon. Samuel Freeman was appointed Judge of Pro bate for the County of Cumberland, in the place of the late Hon. William Gorham. Hon. John Frothingham1 was appointed Register of Probate. September 4. Lieutenant Henry Wadsworth, aged 19 years, son of Gen. Peleg Wadsworth,2 of Hiram, was blown up in a fire sMp, before the walls of Tripo li, together with his companions, Captain Somers, mid shipman Izard and others. The ship was sent by or der of Commodore Preble, for the purpose of destroy ing the Tripolitan navy. These young men sacrificed their lives, rather than fall into the hands of the en emy. A monument, to commemorate this event, has been erected in front of the capitol at Washington. There is also a monument in the eastern cemetery, in Portland, erected by the friends of young AVadsworth. September 13. The Pythagorian Lodge of Ancient Masons, was consecrated at Fryeburg, and its officers i Mr. Frothingham was born in Charlestown, Mass, in 1750. In 1771, he graduated at Harvard College. He came to Portland about the year 1773 and studied law with Theophilus Brad- bury. In 1784, he married Martha May of Boston. During his life he was County Attorney, Representative to the General Court, and Judge of the Court of Common Pleas. He died in 1826, aged 76. 2 Mr. Wadsworth was a Major Gen- eral in the war of the revolution. He was born in Duxbury, Mass. May 6, 1748, and graduated at Harvard Col- lege in 1769. In 1780, he was sent from Boston to command in the dis- trict of Maine, from Piscataqua to St- Croix. After the war he settled in Portland, and was a representative to Congress for fourteen years. In 1781, he was captured in his house and con- veyed to Bagaduce, [Castine.] From the fort where he was imprisoned, he made a most extraordinary escape, with his friend Major Burton. He crossed the Penobscot in a canoe, trav- eled though a pathless wilderness, and finally succeeded in reaching a place of safety. Gen. Wadsworth removed to Hiram, where he died in November, 1829, aged 81 years. He left several children. His daughter, Zilpah, mar- ried the Hon. Stephen Longfellow.