1676 FIRST ATTACK OF THE INDIANS ON FALMOUTH. Philip — his adherents — Symon — his boast — Anthony Brackets — the* treache- ry of Symon — the Indians' attack on the family of Brackets — letter by Thaddeus Clark — Elizabeth Harvey — account of the war — names of killed and prisoners — William Hubbard — Brackets aud his family taken prison- ers — their escape — George Felt — removal of the people to Jewel's Island — assault of the natives — Richard Pots and wife — attack on Black Point — Mugg — Madokawando — death of Mugg — Thomas Cobbet — his captivity — escape. During King Philip's ' war, in the month of August, 1676, several of his strongest adherents, who could speak a little English and had acquired English names, escaped to the Merrimack river and made sad havoc in destroying the inhabitants and wasting their prop erty. One of the greatest adepts in villany, was an Indian by the name of Symon. He had been confined i Philip, a sachem of Pokanoket, succeeded his brother Alexander. He was the son of Massassoit, king of the Womponoogs, whose authority extend ed from Narraganset Bay to Massa chusetts Bay, who died in 1655. In 1662, king Philip renewed the friend ship which had existed with the En glish, and came under an obligation not to dispose of any lands without their consent. But, by the importunity of his young warriors, in 1675, he com menced a war with the Colonists which almost desolated New England. He foresaw the extinction of his tribe, should the English make settlements without interruption, and he was de termined to make vigorous efforts to 3 prevent this calamity. Consequently, the spirit of war was enflamed in the hearts of his followers, and on the Sabbath, June 20, the first attack was made on the English. After doing an incalculable amount of evil, and now having but few foUowers left, Philip was pursued into a swamp by Capt. Benjamin Church, on Saturday, Aug ust 12th, 1676, and shot by an Indian by the name of Alderman. His gun was loaded with two balls one pass ed through his heart and the other pass ed about two inches from it. He fell up on his face with his gun under him. By the orders of Capt. Church, Phil ip was beheaded and quartered.