1807 Jan. CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND SEVEN. William Symmes — Maine bank broken open — Rev. 5Mr. Noyes — Nathaniel Knights — shock of an earthquake — Abigail Taylor — night watch — William Thompson — Jonathan Scott — his house consumed — Zephaniah Harding — freshets — the mail stage swept away — Samuel Foxcroft — annual town meet- ing — officers chosen — votes for Governor — votes respecting the separation of Maine from Massachusetts — centre school house — marriage of Jotham Davis — Pendleton Fletcher — thunder storm — stage struck by lightning — shock of an earthquake — Dr. Morrell attacked by a steer — Representatives to the General Court — Mehitable Meserve — singular death of William Ste- phens — Supreme Court — trial of Joseph Donnough — attorneys admitted to practice — Anthony Morse — accident on Fort Hill — Cotton street laid out — Bank street — high way robbers — Portland Lodge — fourth of July celebration — loss of the scnooner Charles on the rocks near Richmond's Island — list of the drowned — Joseph Williams — death of Joseph M'Keen — Commodore Preble — John Baker — Alexander Munroe — Dolly Taylor — Capt. David Smith — his severe afflictions and losses — Benevolent Society — John Patter- son — Josiah Converse — William Tyng — Thomas Hopkins—Judge Wilde — ordination of Edward Payson — merchants in Portland — dwelling houses built — population — marriages — deatlis. January 7. William Symmes, Esq. Counsellor at Law, died, aged 45 years. Mr. Symmes was the son of Rev. William Symmes,1 D. D. of Andover, Massa chusetts. He pursued Ms legal studies in Essex, Mas sachusetts, and was admitted to the bar in that County, and Ms admission was recognised by thea Cumberland bar at the October term in 1790, soon after he came to Portland. Mr. Symmes was a member of the conven- i Dr. Symmes graduated at Har- vard coUege in 1755, and for the sol- lowing three years was a tutor in that institution. He was ordained at An- dover in 1758, and died in'1807, aged 77 years. He published an election sermon and two other occasional ser mons.