45 GEORGE BURROUGHS. 1676 fetched him us by this time. 10 men, 6 women, and 16 children. Anthony1 ad [and] Thomas Baket, [Brackets] and Mr. Munjoy, his sonne onely are named. I had not time to coppye the letter, persons beinge to goe post to major Walden ;2 but I hope he hath, before this, sent the originall to you. How soon it will be our portion wee know not. The Lord, in mercy, fit us for death and direckt yL' harts and hands to ack and doe wt. [what] is most needfull in such a time of distress as this. Thus, in haste, I commit you i Anthony Bracked was then sup- posed to be killed, but he was only made a prisoner and afterwards escap- ed from the savages. 2 Richard Waldron came from En- gland in 1635, and settled in Dover, N. H. He commenced a plantation at Cocheco (Dover) in 1640. For twen- ty two years he was representative to the General Court and for several years speaker of the house and presi- dent. In the Indian war of 1676, whilst " Sergent Maior," he received instructions to seize all the Indians concerned in the war. Four hundred natives assembled at his house. The English wished to attack them but Major Waldron wished to take them by stratagem. He proposed a sham fight and after the Indians had fired the first volley he made them all pris- oners. He dismissed the friendly In- dians and retained about two hun- dred and sent them to Boston. Some of them were hung and others sold as slaves in foreign parts, while a few made their escape. The course pur- sued by the Major awoke feelings of revenge in the breasts of the savages, which was not gratified till the expira- tion of more than twelve years. When King William's war broke out in North Yarmouth and other places, in August, 1688, the following stratagem was adopted by the Indians for the taking of Dover. Two squaws were sent to each garrisoned house in the evening to ask for lodging, for the pur- pose of opening the" doors and the gates in the night : the signal to be given by a whistle. The plan being ripe for execution, on Thursday, the 27th of June, 1689, two squaws ap- plied to each garrison for lodging and were- admitted. Mesandowit, a chief, was kindly entertained by Waldron, as he had often been before. Mesan- dowit, while at supper, familiarly ask- ed the Major, what he would do if the strange Indians should come ? He replied that by lifting his finger he could assemble a hundred men. When all was quiet the signal was given and the doors were opened. The Indians entered Waldron's apartment. Hear- ing the noise, he jumped out of bed, seized bis sword and with much vigor the brave old man drove them through two or three rooms. As he was retir- ing for his other arms, he was seized from behind, stunned with a blow from a hatchet, forced into his hall and put into an elbow chair, which was placed upon a table, they insultingly asking him, — " Who shall judge Indians now !" They obliged the people in the house to get them victuals, after eating which they struck the Major across the breast with a knife, each one as he cut. exclaiming, " I cross out my account." They cut oft' his ears and nose and forced them into his mouth. When, weak with loss of blood, ho was falling from the table, an Indian held bis sword under him, which pierc- ed him to the heart, and he immedi- ately died. Major Waldron was eighty years of age. The Indians al- so killed his son-in-law, Abraham Lee, and set his house on fire. In all there were twenty-three persons killed and twenty-nine taken captives.