GEORGE BURROUGHS. The father of Burroughs — he graduates — comes to Falmouth— is driven from his house by the Indians— goes to Bangs's Island— Henry. Jocelyn— he is appointed Deputy Governor— removes to Prout's Neck — is appointed Sen- ior Justice — retires to Pemaquid — removes to Plymouth — he marries the . widow Commock — becomes embarrassed — his son Henry — John Jocelyn— Brian Pendleton — his letter — Anthony and Thomas Brackett— Major Wal- dron — settles at Dover — representative to the General Court — his stratagem — sends two hundred Indians to Boston — revenge of the savages — strata- gem of the Indians — Mesandowit — bravery of Waldron — his painful death — Bryan Pendleton a representative — he removes to Portsmouth — settles in Saco— appointed Sergeant Major — his death — his children — Mr. Burroughs goes to Salem village — preaches — his salary — he leaves Salem and returns to Falmouth — his liberality — he retreats to Wells— is accused of witchcraft — the indictment — witnessess — his trial — singular testimony of the bewitched — his feats of strength — Elizur Keysar's testimony — holding a gun at arm's length — Ruck's testimony — the verdict of the court — the sentence of death passed upon him — he declares his innocence — addresses the people — repeats the Lord's • prayer before his death — his children — descendants — Isaiah Thomas. CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND SEVEN. William Symmes — Maine bank broken open — Rev. Mr. Noyes — Nathaniel Knights — shock of an earthquake — Abigail Taylor — night Watch — William Thompson — Jonathan Scott — his house consumed — Zephaniah Harding — freshetsA-the mail stage swept away — Samuel Foxcroft — annual town meet- ing — officers chosen — vote? for Governor — votes respecting the separation of Maine from Massachusetts— centre school house — marriage of Jotham Davis — Pendleton Fletcher — thunder storm — stage struck by lightning — 6hock of an earthquake — Dr. Morrell attacked by a steer— Representatives to the General Court — Mehitable Meserve — singular death of William Ste- phens — Supreme Court-*-trial of Joseph Donnough — attorneys admitted to practice — Anthony Morse — accident on Fort Hill — Cotton street laid out — Bank street— high way robbers — Portland Lodge — fourth of July celebration — loss of the schooner Charles on the rocks near Richmond's Island — list of the drowned^-Joseph Williams— death of Joseph M'Keen— Commodore Preble— John Baker— Alexander Munroe— Dolly Taylor— Capt. David Smith — his severe afflictions and losses — Benevolent Society — John Patter- son— Josiah Converse— William Tyng— Thomas Hopkins— Judge Wilde- ordination of Edward Payson— merchants in Portland — dwelling houses built — population — marriages— deaths.