32 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. 1 804 July. Second Parish, where an oration was pronounced by Stephen Longfellow,1 Esq. The procession returned to Union Hall, where a sumptuous dinner was prepar ed. Among the toasts given were the following : The Memory of Washington. We will revere it till memory itself shall die, and gratitude shall cease to be a virtue. John Adams. The pride of Ms country and an hon or to the world. May the evemng of his days be as happy as the morning of Ms life was glorious. The American Eagle. May its wings protect its friends and its talons crush its enemies. The Hall was finely decorated for the occasion. Portraits of Washington, Adams, and Pmckney were hung m the room. Mr. Longfellow's oration was afterwards published. In Gorham, Samuel WMtmore, Esq. delivered an oration. In North Yarmouth, Mr. Jabez Woodman was the orator of the day. In Windham, Joseph Pope, Esq. pronounced an ora- l Stephen Longfellow was the grandson of Stephen Longfellow, who was born in Newbury, in the year 1723 — graduated at Harvard College in 1742, and came to Falmouth in April, 1745, and opened a school. 5In 1 749, he married Tabitha Bragdon, of York, by whom he had three sons and one daughter. Stephen, his oldest son, married Patience Young of York. These wore the parents of the orator. Stephen was born in Gorham, in 1776, and graduated at Harvard CoUege in 1798. He soon after established him- self in Portland, in the practice of law, and was eminently successful. He was a member of the Hartford Convention in 1814, and afterwards a member of Congress. He married the daughter of Gen. Peleg Wadsworth. Professor Longfellow, of Cambridge, the poet and scholar, is a son of this gentleman. 55E5Iis death occurred in the fall of 1849, at the age of 73 years. 5Mr. Longfellow was, in every respect, a good man. He was kind and gene- rous and always ready to do a favor, no matter how poor and humble the individual who solicited it. We can speak of the good qualities of his heart from personal experience. He died in the full assurance of a better life — having in the early part of his career, made a public profession of Christianity.