14 FIRST SETTLEMENT IN CASCO BAY. 1 646 1652 1664 In March, 1646, by a decision of the Governor-Gen eral and Commissioners of the American Plantations, Alexander Rigby became rightful owner and proprie tor of the Province. This decision was unwelcome to the adherents of Gorges, but they were obliged, how ever unwillingly, to submit to it, and some of them ac tually left the Province. Cleaves immediately opened a court at Saco, under the authority of Rigby. At this place, at Casco, and at Black Point he held ses sions for several years.1 In this manner government was administered until the year 1652, when the people submitted to the Mas sachusetts colony, which claimed the land and jurisdic tion of the Province of Maine as far as the middle of Casco Bay.2 For the first time, Maine took the name of YorksMre, and county courts were held as in Mas sachusetts, and the inhabitants had liberty to send then deputies to the general court. In the year 1664, Charles H. granted to the Duke of York, his" brothei', that part of New England wMch lies between the St. Croix and Pemaquid rivers on the i A singular memorial was present- ed to the court in 1647. It read thus : " The humble petition of Richard Cutts and John Cutting, sheweth — That, contrary to an order, or act of court, which says — no woman shall live on the Isle of Shoals ; John Reynolds has brought his wife hither, with an intention to live here and abide. He has also brought upon Hog Island a great stock of goats and swine, which, by destroying much fish, do great damage to your petitioners and oth- ers ; and also spoil the spring of wa- ter upon that Island, rendering it un- fit for any manner of use — which af- fords the only relief and supply to all the rest of the Islands. Your peti- tioners, therefore, pray, that the act of court may be put in execution for the removal of all women from inhabiting there ; and that said Reynolds may be ordered to remove bis goats and swine from the Island without delay ; and as in duty bound is your petitioners' prayer." The court ordered Reynolds to re- move, within twenty days, his goats and swine from Hog Island, and from such other Islands as were inhabited by fishermen. In regard to the wife, the court thought fit, that " if no fur- ther complaint came against her, she may enjoy the company of her hus- band." 2 At this period a new construction was put upon the Massachusetts char- ter, which was given to Rosswcll and others in 1628, whereby the soil was claimed.