TT CONTENTS. FIKST SETTLEMENT OF CASCO BAY. First permanent settlement ill Maine, 1 G30— attention called to this section of the country as early as 1605 — Capt George Weymouth — his discovery / of the Penobscot— he takes five Indians to England— Sir Ferdinando Gor- ges—he sends vessels 'to America in 1609— Richard Vines — disease among the natives— Vines cordially received— his party stop at Winter Harbor— . Gorges obtains a grant from Plymouth colony — a charter from the crown- William Gorges — his 'government— councillors — Alexander Rigby takes possession of the colony — George Cleaves appointed his deputy — the course of Cleaves — he conveys lands in Casco and other places — Richmond's Island — Robert Jordan— Cleaves opens a court — a singular memorial — sub- mission to the Massachusetts' colony — the grant of Charles II — death of Gorges — heirs of Gorges — confusion of public affairs — John Usher — Char- ter incorporated -with Massachusetts Bay— Maine an independent State. FIRST ATTACK OF THE 5IND55fANS ON FALMOUTH. Philip — his adherents — Symon — his boast — Anthony Brackets — the treache- ry of Symon — the Indians' attack on the family of Brackets — letter by Thaddeus Clark — Elizabeth Harvey — account of the war— names of killed and prisoners — William Hubbard— Brackett and his family taken prison- ers — then' escape — George Felt — removal of 'the people to Jewel's Island — assault of the natives— rRichard Pots and wife — attack on Black Point — Mfigg — Madokawando— death of Mugg— Thomas Cobbet — his captivity — escape. CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. Directors of Portland Bank— Daniel George — a poem — fires — Samuel Free- man — sketch of his life — postmaster- — income of the Post-office — 5Mr. Free- man's removal from the office — his card— Gideon Granger — town officers — Register of Deeds — Representatives to the General Court — votes for Gov- ernor — fourth of July — oration— toasts — James D. Hopkins — Stephen Longfellow — Joseph Pope: — Elizabeth McLellan — William Gorham — Johrf Frothingham — Henry Wadsworth — his death— Peleg Wadsworth — his re- markable escape — Woobury Storer— Tobias Ham — Rufus lung — John Ta- ber & Son— John Howard — meeting previous to election — names of vigilant committees-merchants in Portland — dwelling houses built — population — marriages — deaths. ISee third page of Cover.]