18 ATTACK OF THE INDIAN'S ON FALMOUTH. 1676 in jail in Dover, but making his escape, with a coun terfeit pass, he came to Casco Bay. This Symon often boasted that he had fired at numbers of white men and never but once failed of bringing his object to the ground. He was, therefore, surnamed u the Yankee killer." With Anthony Brackets, who lived at Back Cove — about a quarter of a mile from where Deering's bridge is bmlt — he had made himself acquainted and often visited his house. Early in the month of August — on the 9th of the month, we believe — some of the In dians killed a cow belonging to Mr. Brackets. Symon offered to discover the marauders. " I can show you the fellows that killed the creature," said he. Not suspecting any evil intention, Mr. Brackets and his neighbors despatched two messengers to inform Major Waldron of Dover, of the injury that had been done to his property. Before their return, on the 11th of August, a party of savages came to Brackett's, head ed by Symon,1 who exclaimed, as he approached the house, " Here are the Indians who took your cow," and forthwith seizing all the weapons in sight, proceeded to bind Mr. Brackets, Ms wife, their five children, and a black servant. Being thus bound they were led away prisoners. Nathaniel Mitton, brother to Mrs. 1 In 1677, Symon, with the assist- ance of another Indian, burnt a house in Portsmouth and captured two fe- males — one of them having a young child in her arms. Not being willing to be troubled with the child, Ihey per- mitted it to be left with an aged wom- an, whom Symon spared, because, he said, she had been kind to his grand- mother. This is one act of humanity. On the whole, Symon was as much dreaded as any Indian of his times. In May, 1676, he killed Thomas Em- bal, of Bradford, Mass, and carried off his wife and five children. A short time after, he killed John Keniston, of Greenland, N. H. and burned his house. These and various other crimes he committed, before he at- tempted the destruction of the people of Falmouth. What made his crimes more aggravated, was his professing to be a Christian Indian.