20 ATTACK OF THE INDIANS ON FALMOUTH. 1676 aliue are forced upon Mr. Andrews his Island,1 to se cure our own & the Hues of our families. We haue but little provision and are so few in number that we are not able to bury the dead till more strength come to vs. The desire of the people to your seise is, that you would be pleased to speak to Mr. Munjoy & Dea con Philips that they would entreat the Governour2 that forthwith aid might be sent to vs, either to fight the enemie out of our borders, that our English Corn may be inned in whereby we may comfortably Hue, or remoue vs out of danger, that we may provide for our selues elsewhere. Having no more, at present, but desiring your prayers to God for Ms preservation of vs in these times of danger, I rest, your dutifull Son, ffrom Casco-bay. Thaddeus Clark.^ 16. 6. 76. Remember my Loue to my Sister, &c. These ffor his honoured Mother, Mris. Elizabeth Harvey,4 living in Boston. l Bangs's Island is here referred to. It once belonged to James Andrews. 2 George Munjoy was sent to Fal- mouth with fifteen hundred pounds of bread, which was a great relief to the half famished inhabitants. 3 Thaddeus Clark was one of the early settlers of Falmouth. He mar- ried the second daughter of Michael Mitton, and was himself killed by the Indians, with thirteen of the company he commanded, in the year 1 690. For this invaluable letter, which has prob- ably not seen the light for more than a century and a half, we are indebted to S. G. Drake, Esq. of Boston, who has recently come in possession of it. We think Mr. Clark was a native of Boston. He was probably the son of Thomas Clark. 4 Elizabeth Harvey was the mother of Mr. Clark's wife, by a former hus- band, 5Michael Mitton. Her present husband was, undoubtedly, Thomas Harvey, who was born in Boston, October 18, 1641 — who was a son of William and Joane Harvey. William Harvey died August 15. 1658, leaving four sons and one daughter. Abigail, who was bom the 25th of February, 1640. Mrs. Harvey died in 1682.