

 P5  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000005.xml 
  

 P27  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000027.xml 
 29 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. 1804 March appointed to succeed him. Although Mr. Granger1 believes ' that the public interest will be promoted by the appomtment of a new Postmaster,' he flatters himself that the public will not tMnk that his belief is grounded on evidence of any breach of trust or partiality in the exercise of it towards persons of a different political character. He is not conscious of bemg culpable in these respects, but is happy in the reflection, that from the time of Ms first appointment in the year 1775, he has discharged the duties of the office with a due regard to all concerned, and with that care and attention, wMch they had a right to ex pect." When Mr. Freeman received Ms notice to remove, he addressed a cutting letter to Mr. Granger, — a copy of wMch is m our possession — in wMch he desires to know the reasons of Ms removal. Said he, " I should have been glad if you had informed me what it was that influenced you in your determination to remove me. Was it grounded on the idea that, however faith ful your deputies are, who were appointed before you came into office, it was necessary their places should be enjoyed by men of your own sect ? — and that be cause they do not resign or die fast enough, vacancies ought to be created for the purpose ? " i Gideon Granger was born at Suf- field, Conn., July 19, 1767, and gradu- atedatYale CoUegein 1787. In 1801, he was appointed by President Jeffer- son, Postmaster General in place of Joseph Habersham. He held the of- fiee until 1814, when he was succeed- ed by Return Jonathan Meigs. He was actively engaged in internal im- provcments, and while a member of the New York Senate in 1819,he gave one thousand acres of land for the Erie Canal. He died December 31, 1822, aged 55. 5His writings were mostly of a political character, over the signatures of Senectus, Algernon Sidney, and Epaminondas. Mr. Gran ger married the sister of Mr. Pease, Assistant Posmaster General. 

 P12  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000012.xml 
 14 FIRST SETTLEMENT IN CASCO BAY. 1 646 1652 1664 In March, 1646, by a decision of the Governor-Gen eral and Commissioners of the American Plantations, Alexander Rigby became rightful owner and proprie tor of the Province. This decision was unwelcome to the adherents of Gorges, but they were obliged, how ever unwillingly, to submit to it, and some of them ac tually left the Province. Cleaves immediately opened a court at Saco, under the authority of Rigby. At this place, at Casco, and at Black Point he held ses sions for several years.1 In this manner government was administered until the year 1652, when the people submitted to the Mas sachusetts colony, which claimed the land and jurisdic tion of the Province of Maine as far as the middle of Casco Bay.2 For the first time, Maine took the name of YorksMre, and county courts were held as in Mas sachusetts, and the inhabitants had liberty to send then deputies to the general court. In the year 1664, Charles H. granted to the Duke of York, his" brothei', that part of New England wMch lies between the St. Croix and Pemaquid rivers on the i A singular memorial was present- ed to the court in 1647. It read thus : " The humble petition of Richard Cutts and John Cutting, sheweth — That, contrary to an order, or act of court, which says — no woman shall live on the Isle of Shoals ; John Reynolds has brought his wife hither, with an intention to live here and abide. He has also brought upon Hog Island a great stock of goats and swine, which, by destroying much fish, do great damage to your petitioners and oth- ers ; and also spoil the spring of wa- ter upon that Island, rendering it un- fit for any manner of use — which af- fords the only relief and supply to all the rest of the Islands. Your peti- tioners, therefore, pray, that the act of court may be put in execution for the removal of all women from inhabiting there ; and that said Reynolds may be ordered to remove bis goats and swine from the Island without delay ; and as in duty bound is your petitioners' prayer." The court ordered Reynolds to re- move, within twenty days, his goats and swine from Hog Island, and from such other Islands as were inhabited by fishermen. In regard to the wife, the court thought fit, that " if no fur- ther complaint came against her, she may enjoy the company of her hus- band." 2 At this period a new construction was put upon the Massachusetts char- ter, which was given to Rosswcll and others in 1628, whereby the soil was claimed. 

 P49  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000049.xml 
 51 GEORGE BURROUGHS. 1690 muzzle of a heavy gun, would hold it out at arm's length — a gun too, which the defendants could not lift up and hold out at the but-end. It was further testified, that he kept Ms two wives in a sort of slave ry — that he often brought them to the point of death by his severity — that he made his neighbors promise, in the case of their death, never to reveal his actions, and that his wives had privately complained to their neighbors, respecting the frightful spirits that infested the house. A brother-in-law of Mr. Burroughs, by the name of Ruck, testified that he, in company with Mr. B. and Ms wife, went two or three miles to gather strawber ries. While Ruck and his sister were returning home, Burroughs stepped aside in the bushes, whereupon they halted and hallooed for Mm, but receiving no reply, they rode home, with a quickened pace. When near the house, they discovered Mr. Burroughs on foot, having a basket of strawberries in his hand. He com menced chiding Ms wife, on account of her conversa tion — he stating that he knew their thoughts. Ruck intimated that the devil Mmself did not know as much ; but Burroughs replied that God had made known to Mm their thoughts. The prisoner at the bar remarked that Ruck left a man with him, which was pronounced to be false. The court thought he merely stepped aside to receive the assistance of the devil. Upon such testimony, the jury brought Mr. Bur roughs in guilty, and the sentence of death was passed upon Mm. Probably, a more upright, conscientious, CMistian 

 P32  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000032.xml 
 34 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. 1 804 Sept. Sept. land, to be connected with Montreal. At that day railroads were not thought of. Hon. Samuel Freeman was appointed Judge of Pro bate for the County of Cumberland, in the place of the late Hon. William Gorham. Hon. John Frothingham1 was appointed Register of Probate. September 4. Lieutenant Henry Wadsworth, aged 19 years, son of Gen. Peleg Wadsworth,2 of Hiram, was blown up in a fire sMp, before the walls of Tripo li, together with his companions, Captain Somers, mid shipman Izard and others. The ship was sent by or der of Commodore Preble, for the purpose of destroy ing the Tripolitan navy. These young men sacrificed their lives, rather than fall into the hands of the en emy. A monument, to commemorate this event, has been erected in front of the capitol at Washington. There is also a monument in the eastern cemetery, in Portland, erected by the friends of young AVadsworth. September 13. The Pythagorian Lodge of Ancient Masons, was consecrated at Fryeburg, and its officers i Mr. Frothingham was born in Charlestown, Mass, in 1750. In 1771, he graduated at Harvard College. He came to Portland about the year 1773 and studied law with Theophilus Brad- bury. In 1784, he married Martha May of Boston. During his life he was County Attorney, Representative to the General Court, and Judge of the Court of Common Pleas. He died in 1826, aged 76. 2 Mr. Wadsworth was a Major Gen- eral in the war of the revolution. He was born in Duxbury, Mass. May 6, 1748, and graduated at Harvard Col- lege in 1769. In 1780, he was sent from Boston to command in the dis- trict of Maine, from Piscataqua to St- Croix. After the war he settled in Portland, and was a representative to Congress for fourteen years. In 1781, he was captured in his house and con- veyed to Bagaduce, [Castine.] From the fort where he was imprisoned, he made a most extraordinary escape, with his friend Major Burton. He crossed the Penobscot in a canoe, trav- eled though a pathless wilderness, and finally succeeded in reaching a place of safety. Gen. Wadsworth removed to Hiram, where he died in November, 1829, aged 81 years. He left several children. His daughter, Zilpah, mar- ried the Hon. Stephen Longfellow. 

 P29  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000029.xml 
 31 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. Senators. John Gushing, 372 ; Woobury Storer, 342 ; Daniel Usley, 221 ; Isaac Parsons, 194 ; Lathrop Lewis, 11 ; Nathaniel C. Allen, 4 ; Ammi R. Mitchell, 2 ; Isaac Parker, 1 ; William Symmes, 1. Among other subjects brought before this meeting was one relative to public walks. But, to the regret of the present generation, no action was taken upon it. Died, in Boothbay, Mr. Samuel Barter, aged 105 years. May 14. The following gentlemen were chosen as May- Representatives to the General Court : Portland. Joseph Titcomb, William Symmes, Dan iel Tucker, Matthew Cobb. Falmouth. Archelaus Lewis, Noiih Yarmouth. Ammi R. Mitchell. Scarborough. Col. Larrabee Neio Gloucester. Joseph E. Foxcroft. July 4. This day was observed by the usual dem- July onstrations of joy. A procession was formed, escorted by the Portland Artillery, commanded by James D. Hopkins,1 Esq. which proceeded to the church of the i James D. Hopkins was born at Axminister, England, and came to Portland when quite young, with his father. He studied law in the office of Daniel Davis. Being a close student, when admitted to the Cumberland bar, he at once took a high stand. Mr. Hopkins died June 17, 1840, aged 68 years. He was thrice married. His first wife was Mary Bagley, to whom he was married in January, 1802, who died in the March following. To his second wife, Dor- cas Tucker, he was married in Decem- ber, 1804. She died in June, 1816. To his third wife, Louisa H. Crabtree, he was married in 1822. She died in October, 1848. Mr. Hopkins, at the time of his death, had nearly complet- ed a work on Insurance. He also left a wTork in manuscript, in two volumes. It is a fiction founded upon the early history of Falmouth. His published works are — " An Oration pronounced before the Portland Lodge of Free and Accepted Ancient Masons," June 24th, 1801 ; "An Oration pronounced be- fore the inhabitants of Portland, July 4th, 1805;" and "An Address to the members of Cumberland Bar," deliv- ered at Portland, June term, 1833. 5Mr. Hopkins left three children — Ma- ry E. who married James G. Norcross of Lowell, Mass. ; Susan P. who mar- ried St. John Smith of Portland ; Dor- cas, who married Elias Banks of Port- land. 

 P1  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000001.xml 
  

 P19  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000019.xml 
 21 ATTACK OF THE INDIANS ON FALMOUTH. 1 676 Anthony Brackets was not killed, but, with his fam ily, was taken prisoner. The manner of his escape is related by Hubbard.1 The Indians that led them captive, having brought them to the north side of Casco Bay, news was brought to them of the surprisal of Arowsic's house in Kenne bec, with all the stores therein, which did so rejoice them, that they made all haste -to share in the good things there to be had. Thus eager to be gone, they promised Brackett and his wife that they also should have a share therein if they would make haste after them, bringing along a burthen allotted to each of them. The woman having a little before observed an old birch canoe lying by the water side, hoped it was an opportunity Providence offered for their escape ; whereupon she first prudently asked the Indians to let the negro, their own servant, ( at the same thne car ried captive by them,) help them to carry their bur then, which was granted ; then she begged of them a piece or two of meat, wMch was not denied them. Thus being furnished with help and provision, the In dians leaving them behind to come after with their several burthens, and a young child, they could not but look upon it as a nidus Divinus, to bid them sMft i William Hubbard was a minister of Ipswich, Mass. He was born in the year 1621, and graduated at Har- vard college, in the first class, in 1642. He was ordained about the year 1657, as colleague with Rev. Mr. Cobbet. He wrote a History of New England, for which he received from the State fifty pounds. His other publications were — an election sermon, entitled " The Happiness of a People in the Wisdom of their Rulers Directing and in the Obedience of their Brethren : " " The Present State of New England, being a Narrative of the Troubles with the Indians from the first Plant- ing thereof in 1607 to 1677, but chief- ly of the two last years, 1675 and 1676, to which is added a Discourse about the war with the Pequots : " a Fast Sermon: a Funeral Discourse on Gen. Denison : " A Testimony to the Order of the Gospel in the church- es of New England with 5Mr. Higgin- son." Mr. Hubbard died in the year 1704, at the advanced age of 82. 

 P39  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000039.xml 
 ■II 1 804 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FoUll. Thornton, Joshua and Elizabeth Burns. Thomas, George and Anne Morse. Threemer, Philip and Deborah Morse. Tucker, David and Eliza Adams. Thurston, John P. and Polly Tucker. Warren, William and Patience Trip. Wheelwright. Jonathan and Sarah Anderson. Wright, Boston and Betsey Johnson. White, Thomas J. and Polly Shepherd. Winslow, Joseph and Charlotte Wood N. Noyes. Walton, Mark and Sally Newman. Yeaton, John and Nancy Burton. Young, John and Fanny Fowler. DEATHS IN PORTLAND* Adams,1 Aaron, aged 27. Alden, Mrs. Elizabeth 74. Bagley, Mrs. Mary 66. Brazier, Enoch 43. Clough, Mrs. Sally 54. Chamberlain, Mrs. Anna 36 Curvin, Nicholas 70. Dean,2 Eliphalet Dyer, Mrs. Sally 27. Eskildson, Miss Lydia 16. Fosdick, Heniy 21. Fling, John Gould, Jacob 85. Gookin, Samuel 75. Gookin, Mrs. Sarah 72. George, Daniel 45. Hodgkins, Samuel 53. Hants, Mrs. Jane Hosseac, Mrs. Eliza 45. Knight, Mrs. Rebecca 49. Kelley, John Lewis, Mrs. Rebecca 27. Motley, Mrs. Naney 25. Mayland, John 19. M'Lellan, Mrs. Mary 63. Noyes, Mrs. Betsey 65. * In no cases have we inserted deaths of children under the age of ten years. The names of a few citi- zens who died abroad have been given. si 1 Mr. Adams was drowned at Ports mouth. 2 Mr. Dean died in Boston. 

 P25  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000025.xml 
 27 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. woman made a remark, which he thought reflected up- ?t^ on himself, when he immediately replied : If I had spoke before my birth, I'd please the prettiest lass on earth ! Mr. George was an agreeable companion and an hon est man.1 February 5. A fire was discovered in the dwelling Feb house of Mr. Michael Duley, which was extinguished without much damage. February 25. There was an alarm of fire last eve ning. It originated in Mr. Griffin's shoe store, Jones's Row. The damage was trifling. February 29. Last evening, at Freeport Landing, 1 Besides his other attainments, Mr. George possessed quite a poetical tal ent. The following " Elegy on the death of two Favorite Thrashes," was written by him several years before his death : Begin, my muse, the mournful strain, 0 ! let me not implore in vain, Thy verse inspiring power ; My grief an ample theme affords, But how shall I pronounce the words, My thrushes are no more ! Both, both my darling birds are gone : Had cruel death but spared me one, I scarcely would repine ; But both are "dead! 0 ! fate unkind! What pangs of grief distract my mind ! Nor hopes of joy are mine. How would my little warblers come, And tamely sit upon my thumb, Well pleased, and sweetly sing : The moments softly rolled away, And gloomy winter seemed like May, The flowery month of Spring. And when the violin was played, _ They'd always lend their softer aid, "To grace the enchanting sound ; No evil genius could be near, While music charmed the listening ear Of every subject round. But now my favorite birds are gone, And I most feelingly bemoan Their fate in pensive strain : To books I fly to seek relief, And ease my heart-corroding grief; But all, alas, in vain I Nor Milton, Addison, nor Pope, Affords one cheering ray of hope, Though I their works explore ; Nor violin's melodious tone, Has power to charm; my birds are gone, And music is no more. Come, all you little winged loves, That haunt the valleys and the groves, And drop a friendly tear : Ye thrushes — birds of sweetest lays, Robins and sparrows, larks and jays, Attend the solemn bier. Not one of all your feathered throng, Could, like my thrushes, chant a song, So pleasing to the ear ; Nor could the famed Canary bird, Such sweet variety afford, So musical and clear. And now, in soft elysian shades, Where no fell accident invades, By mortal eye unseen, They sing in more exalted strains, And freely roam o'er hills and plains, Through groves forever green. 

 P16  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000016.xml 
 18 ATTACK OF THE INDIAN'S ON FALMOUTH. 1676 in jail in Dover, but making his escape, with a coun terfeit pass, he came to Casco Bay. This Symon often boasted that he had fired at numbers of white men and never but once failed of bringing his object to the ground. He was, therefore, surnamed u the Yankee killer." With Anthony Brackets, who lived at Back Cove — about a quarter of a mile from where Deering's bridge is bmlt — he had made himself acquainted and often visited his house. Early in the month of August — on the 9th of the month, we believe — some of the In dians killed a cow belonging to Mr. Brackets. Symon offered to discover the marauders. " I can show you the fellows that killed the creature," said he. Not suspecting any evil intention, Mr. Brackets and his neighbors despatched two messengers to inform Major Waldron of Dover, of the injury that had been done to his property. Before their return, on the 11th of August, a party of savages came to Brackett's, head ed by Symon,1 who exclaimed, as he approached the house, " Here are the Indians who took your cow," and forthwith seizing all the weapons in sight, proceeded to bind Mr. Brackets, Ms wife, their five children, and a black servant. Being thus bound they were led away prisoners. Nathaniel Mitton, brother to Mrs. 1 In 1677, Symon, with the assist- ance of another Indian, burnt a house in Portsmouth and captured two fe- males — one of them having a young child in her arms. Not being willing to be troubled with the child, Ihey per- mitted it to be left with an aged wom- an, whom Symon spared, because, he said, she had been kind to his grand- mother. This is one act of humanity. On the whole, Symon was as much dreaded as any Indian of his times. In May, 1676, he killed Thomas Em- bal, of Bradford, Mass, and carried off his wife and five children. A short time after, he killed John Keniston, of Greenland, N. H. and burned his house. These and various other crimes he committed, before he at- tempted the destruction of the people of Falmouth. What made his crimes more aggravated, was his professing to be a Christian Indian. 

 P13  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000013.xml 
 15 FIRST SETTLEMENT IN CASCO BAY. 1664 1669 1674 sea coast — up the Pemaquid to its head — thence to the Kennebec river, in a northerly course to the river St. Lawrence. This part of New England was annex ed to the government of New York, and called the Duke of York's property. On the death of Charles II. his brother became James II. ; but upon his abdica tion these tracts reverted to the crown. Upon the res toration, the heirs of Gorges1 made complaint to the crown of the Massachusetts usurpation. In 1665, the king's commissioners visited New England — came to Maine and appomted officers independent of the Mas sachusetts colony. These magistrates admmistered government according to the instructions given them by the king's commissioners, until the year 1668 or 1669, when the general court appomted and sent commissioners and mterrupted those who had been ap pointed by the king's authority. The public affairs were in much confusion : some de claring for the heirs of Gorges and the king, and oth ers for Massachusetts. The latter finally prevafled, and courts of pleas and criminal jurisdiction were held in the province of Maine. In the year 1674, the heirs of Gorges agam made complaint to the king of the ursurpation of Massachu setts Bay, and the people were called to answer to the complaint, The consequence was, for a time, they ceased to exercise then authority, and the grandson of Gorges sent over instructions. In the year 1677, the i Sir Ferdinando Gorges died in England, 1648, at the age of 74. His eldest son John, to whom fell his es- tate, through incapacity, or not think- ing that he should prove successful in his efforts, took no care whatever of the property. It was a grandson of Sir Ferdinando, who now made com plaint to the king. 

 P54  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000054.xml 
 -36 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND SEVEN. January 16. Rev. Mr. Noyes died in Gorham. He was a native of Newburyport, and graduated at Harvard college in 1799. He had been settled in Gorham four years. 1 80 Jan. The town voted to employ eight men on the night watch — four of whom were to be on the watch at a time, till the first of April, at an expense of seven hundred dollars. February 1. Died in Scarborough, Hon. William Thompson, Chief Justice of the Court of General Ses sions of the Peace for the County of Cumberland. He was a man of uprightness and piety. Feb. February 8. The dwelling house of Rev. Jonathan Scott, of Minot, was consumed by fire. A son twelve years of age perished in the flames. An older son es caped by jumping from the chamber window. February 13. Mr. Zephaniah Harding died in Gor ham, aged 70 years. He fell dead at his door. He was a soldier in the French war of 1758, and kept by him, till the day of his death, a tomahawk and scalp ing knife which he took from the enemy. February 19. The wife and child of Mr. Nathan iel Knights were drowned in attempting, with a horse and sleigh, to cross the unrailed bridge at Little Falls in Windham. The horse started from a sudden fright, when Mr. Knights sprang from the sleigh and attempt ed to stop the horse* but hi^ efforts were ineffect ual. 7 Ar 59 A shock of an earthquake was felt in town about half past one o'clock. Its duration was about tiiirty seconds. Its direction appeared to be from north-east to south-west. 

 P45  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000045.xml 
 47 GEORGE BURROUGHS. part of said Burrough's land, formerly given him by \^\y^ the people of Falmouth, for the end before express This land, amounting to about one hundred and seven ty acres, Mr. Burroughs freely relinquished, at the re quest of the town, which shows the liberal and disin terested spirit of the man. He even offered to give them twenty acres more, if they wished it, without ac cepting in return, then offer of one hundred acres, some distance off. Mr. Burroughs continued to preach to the people of Falmouth, until the year 1690, " when the town was sacked by the Indians," and he retreated to Wells. But a severe trial awaited Mm. He was one of the unhappy number who fell victims to that extraordina ry delusion of the seventeenth century, witchcraft. The indictment against Mm was as follows : The jurors for our sovereign lord and lady, the king and queen, present, that George Burroughs, late of Falmouth, in the Province of Massachusetts Bay, in New England, clerk, the 9th day of May, in the fourth year of the reign of our sovereign lord and lady, Wil liam and Mary, by the grace of God, of England, Scot land, France, and Ireland, king and queen, defenders of the faith, &c. and divers other days and times, as well before as after certain detestable acts, called witchcraft and sorceries, wickedly and felomously hath used, practised, and exercised, at and within the town sMp of Salem, in the County of Essex aforesaid, in, upon, and against one Mary Wolcott, of Salem village, in the County of Essex, smgle woman, by wMch said wicked arts, the said Mary Wolcott, on the 9th day of 

 P31  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000031.xml 
 33 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. 1804 July. Aug. tion. " It met the general applause and approbation of the audience," wrote one who was present, " and discovered the fire of native genius and irreproachable political principles." At Brklgton, the declaration of independence was read by Samuel Farnsworth, Esq. and an oration pro nounced by Mr. Langdon. July 9. Died in Gorham, widow Elizabeth McLel lan, aged 95 years. She was born in the north of Ire land, and came to this country in early life with her husband. After spending a few weeks m Boston and Falmouth, she settled in Gorham. TMs place was then a wilderness, but she lived to see it become a flourish ing town. Mrs. M. lived to see her descendants to the fourth generation ; all of whom amounted to two hun dred and thirty four. All but twenty five survived her. July 22. Hon. William Gorham1 died in Gor ham, aged 62 years. He was Judge of Probate and CMef Justice of the Common Pleas for the County of Cumberland. August 6. Mr. Tobias Ham died in Brunswick, aged 86. He left one hundred and twenty two de scendants ; some, of the fifth generation. Seven sons followed him to the grave ; the youngest of whom was 50 years of age. September. During this season there was much dis cussion respecting a turnpike from St. Albans to Port- i Judge Gorliam was a native of Barnstable, Mass. He held the office of Judge of Probate twenty-two years and that of Judge of the Court of r, Common Pleas seventeen years. The town of Gorham was named from one of his family. 

 P11  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000011.xml 
 13 FIRST SETTLEMENT IN CASCO BAY. 1643 164 mouth, but who was at this time in England, his depu ty-president. Cleaves was aware of the trouble he was likely to meet with from the former agents of Gor ges, who had exercised jurisdiction over the Province for six or seven years, and on arriving at Boston, in 1044, he endeavored, but in vain, to enlist m his be half the Massachusetts magistrates. He then address ed a letter to Gorges's Council and returned to the neck, (Falmouth.) But his movements met with in cessant opposition from the Council. After endeavor ing, in various ways, to effect a reconciliation between the parties, a special court was held in Boston, June 3, 1645, to hear the case. But as neither party could make it appear, by legal proof, that the territory be longed to them, the court dismissed the case, and ad vised the disputants to live in peace. The government of Cleaves was now 'little more than a supervision of the interest of Rigby. As his agent, however, in 1647, he conveyed lands in Spur wink, Casco, Purpooduck, and upon the Islands.1 Rig by was a zealous Episcopalian, and it was by Ms en couragement that Richard Gibson settled on Rich mond's Island. The council of Plymouth had granted this Island to Robert Trelawney and Moses Goodyeare, who, in 1632, appointed John Winter,2 to superintend the fishery at that place. i Cleaves gave a deed of Peak's Island to his son-in-law, Michael Mit- ton, in 1637, by virtue of a commis- sion from Gorges, dated February 25, of this year, "for letting and settling lands and islands between Cape Eliz- abeth and Sagadahock." Cleaves al- so conveyed a large tract of land to George Mountjoy. 2 John Winter died in 1645, leaving one daughter, who married Rev. Rob ert Jordan, whose descendants are nu merous in Cape Elizabeth. Mr. Jor dan died at Great Island, N. H., 1679, aged 78, leaving a large estate in lands to his sons. 

 P20  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000020.xml 
 22 ATTACK OF THE INDIANS ON FALMOUTH. 1676 1 689 for themselves. The woman also found a needle and thread in the house, with which she mended the canoe, while they tarried on that side of the bay, in wMch they soon ventured to get away, which prosperously succeeded ; for in that old canoe they crossed a water eight or nine miles broad, and when they came on the south side of the bay, they might have been in as much danger of other Indians, that had lately been about Black Pomt, and had taken it ; but they were newly gone. So tMngs on all sides thus concurring to help forward their deliverance, they came safely to the flat at Black Point, where, also, by special providence, they met with a vessel bound for Piscataqua, that came into that harbor but a few hours before they came tMther, by which means they arrived safe in Piscata qua river soon after. Thirteen years afterwards, in 1689, Mr. Brackett was again taken captive and remained among the In dians about one year. In 1682, he commanded Fort Loyal1 and two military companies. He was also the representative of Falmouth to the General Assembly, under President Danforth's admimstration. He was shot by the Indians in the year 1689. His descend ants still reside in Portland. The next day after the slaughter by the Indians, a man by the name of George Felt,2 as we learn from Hubbard, suspecting the worst, by reason of a smoke he saw on the opposite side of the town, took Ms wife i Fort Loyal was situated at the foot of 5King, now India street. s George Felt became a freeman in Falmouth in 1660. He married the daughter of Jane Macworth. He was killed by the Indians September 23, on Munjoy's [Peak's] Island. With him fell six or seven persons belong ing to Casco —but whose names were never handed down. 

 P24  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000024.xml 
 1804 Jan. Feb. CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. Directors of Portland Bank — Daniel George — a poem — fires — Samuel Free- man — sketch of his life — postmaster — income of the Post-office — Mr. Free- man's removal from the office — his card — Gideon Granger — town officers — Register of Deeds — Representatives to the General Court — votes for Gov- ernor — fourth of July — oration — toasts — James D. Hopkins — Stephen Longfellow — Joseph Pope — Elizabeth McLellan — William Gorham — .John Frothingham — Henry Wadsworth — his death— Peleg Wadsworth — his re- markable escape — Woobury Storer — Tobias Ham — Rufus King — John Ta- ber & Son — John Howard — meeting previous to election — names of vigilant committee — merchants in Portland — dwelling houses built — population — marriages — deaths. January 2. The following stockholders were cho sen Directors of the Portland Bank, for the ensuing year : Hugh M'Lellan, Matthew Cobb, Woodbury Storer, Daniel Tucker, Arthur M'Lellan, John Mus sey, Samuel F. Hussey. January 10. Joel Somes, of Sheepscot, was drown ed in the river at Wiscasset, by the upsetting of a canoe. February 4. Mr. Daniel George, aged 45, died sud denly. He was late publisher of the " Gazette of Maine." Mr. George, although a cripple from his in fancy, possessed an active and capacious mind. He was distinguished for his proficiency in mathematics. On account of Ms dwarfish appearance, George was sometimes slighted by the fair sex. One day a gay 

 P46  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000046.xml 
 48 GEORGE BURROUGHS. ; 6 90 May, in the fourth year aforesaid, and divers other days and times, as well before as after, was and is tor tured, afflicted, pined, consumed, wasted, and torment ed, against the peace of our sovereign lord and lady, the king and queen, and against the form of the stat ute made and provided. Witnesses : Mary Wolcott, Sarah Bibber, Mercy Lewis, Ann Putman, Elizabeth Hubbard. There was a second indictment, for afflicting Eliza beth Hubbard. The witnesses were Elizabeth Hub bard, Mary Wolcott, and Ann Putman. A tMrd in dictment was for afflicting Mercy Lewis. The witness es were Mercy Lewis, Mary Wolcott, Elizabeth Hub bard and Ann Putman. The fourth indictment was for acts of witchcraft on Ann Putman. The witness es were Ann Putman, Mary Wolcott, Elizabeth Hub bard, and Mary Warren. In prosecuting the charges against Mr. Burroughs, he was accused by five or six of the bewitched as the author of their miseries, and by eight of the confess ing witches, as bemg a head leader at some of their hellish resorts. He had the promise of being a king in Satan's Iringdom. He was also accused by nine persons for extraordinary feats of strength, wMch could not have been accomplished by man, without the assistance of the devil. In all, about thirty witnesses were called in to testify against Mm and scores more might have been produced, but these were adjudged sufficient to fix upon him the character of a witch. One of the females bewitched, testified that in her distress, a little black haired man appeared to her say ing Ms name was Burroughs. He bid her put her 

 P56  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000056.xml 
 TO THE DESCENDANTS OF THE PILGRIMS- The author of the " Chronicles " intends to make a wprk that will be interesting and valuable, not only to the descendants of the early settlers of Casco Bay; but to all who feel in terested in the history of. our pilgrim fathers. His work will be issued in numbers like the present, as often as circumstances will admit,and no pains will be spared to make it as free from mistakes. and errors as it is possible to make a work of this character. The book, will contain, at least, five hun dred pages. It is his intention to chronicle all the events of importance that have transpired from the first settlement of Casco Bay to the present time — inclu ding the early marriages, births, and deaths, and genealogies, of families. The materials in his possession have been gathered from various sources and it has occupied more or less of his time for many years past. Histories of individuals and events, when of suf ficient- length and interest, will form distinct chapters, as in the present number. Yet more facts and more documents are desirable. We would particularly request those who h^ivc letters or pa pers of any description whatever, rel ative to our ancestors, Or any interest ing facts in their possession, to com municate the same to the publishers of this work. Of however trifling value they may appear to them, we trust they yill not withhold them. We would also request lists of the early military companies — of minis- ters* and church members — of school masters and scholars, and of .individu- als who have in any way distinguished themselves. We should.be happy to receive cop , ies of old deeds, wills, commissions, or journals which may have been kept by families or individuals, whether for one month or for a series of years. Also, genealogies of the early settlers of Casco Bay. Letters or documents thrown aside in old chests and garrets, where they have lain for scores of years, may be invaluable to us. Will those who have papers left by their ■ ancestors, bring them to the light and send them to the publishers of the " Chronicles " f A short delay may be the means of losing many interest- ing and valuable documents. In our next number will be com- menced a valuable and interesting. journal, kept during the revolutionary times, by Mr. William Moody of Port- land, who was a member of Capt. Bradish's Company, that was ordered to Cambridge in' 1775. Can any one furnish us with the list of Captain Lowell'-s company of 1775 ?— of a copy of Pitchwood Hill, by Dr. Dean"? — of files, or parts of files of Portland papers,' previous to the year 1800? All communications, relative to the design of this work, addressed to Messrs: Saxeokn- & Carter, will be thankfully received. March, 1850. 

 P51  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000051.xml 
 53 GEORGE BURROUGHS. 16 92 of Boston ; Hannah married Mr. Fox, of the same place ; but we know not the name of the husband of Mary ; and Elizabeth married Peter Thomas, of Bos ton, the ancestor of the late Isaiah Thomas,1 L L. D. of Worcester. The names of his two sons were George and Jeremiah. i Isaiah Thomas was the son of Mo- ses Thomas. He was born in Boston in 1749. His father died when he was young. At the age of six years he was put out as an apprentice to Z. Fowle, with whom he remained eleven years. In 1770, he commenced in Boston the publication of the Massa- chusetts Spy, in which paper he pub- lished many spirited articles against the oppressive laws of the British Par- liament towards the New England Colonies. In 1771, Governor Hutch- inson and Council, on account of an article that appeared in the Spy, en- deavored to bring 5Mr. Thomas before them — but so much resistance was made that' the measure was finally dropped. In 1775, he removed his paper to Worcester, and three years after opened a bookstore in Boston. At one time he had under his control sixteen presses in use and eight book- stores. He issued a folio edition of the Bible in 1791. In the latter part of his life, Mr. Thomas founded the American Antiquarian Society, for which he erected a brick house at Worcester — of which society he was president and a most liberal patron. The honorary degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred upon him by the Alleghany College, Pennsylvania. He published in 1810, in two volumes, oc- tavo, a valuable History of Printing in America, which evinces great re- search. He died at Worcester, April 4, 1831, aged 82 years. 

 P15  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000015.xml 
 1676 FIRST ATTACK OF THE INDIANS ON FALMOUTH. Philip — his adherents — Symon — his boast — Anthony Brackets — the* treache- ry of Symon — the Indians' attack on the family of Brackets — letter by Thaddeus Clark — Elizabeth Harvey — account of the war — names of killed and prisoners — William Hubbard — Brackets aud his family taken prison- ers — their escape — George Felt — removal of the people to Jewel's Island — assault of the natives — Richard Pots and wife — attack on Black Point — Mugg — Madokawando — death of Mugg — Thomas Cobbet — his captivity — escape. During King Philip's ' war, in the month of August, 1676, several of his strongest adherents, who could speak a little English and had acquired English names, escaped to the Merrimack river and made sad havoc in destroying the inhabitants and wasting their prop erty. One of the greatest adepts in villany, was an Indian by the name of Symon. He had been confined i Philip, a sachem of Pokanoket, succeeded his brother Alexander. He was the son of Massassoit, king of the Womponoogs, whose authority extend ed from Narraganset Bay to Massa chusetts Bay, who died in 1655. In 1662, king Philip renewed the friend ship which had existed with the En glish, and came under an obligation not to dispose of any lands without their consent. But, by the importunity of his young warriors, in 1675, he com menced a war with the Colonists which almost desolated New England. He foresaw the extinction of his tribe, should the English make settlements without interruption, and he was de termined to make vigorous efforts to 3 prevent this calamity. Consequently, the spirit of war was enflamed in the hearts of his followers, and on the Sabbath, June 20, the first attack was made on the English. After doing an incalculable amount of evil, and now having but few foUowers left, Philip was pursued into a swamp by Capt. Benjamin Church, on Saturday, Aug ust 12th, 1676, and shot by an Indian by the name of Alderman. His gun was loaded with two balls one pass ed through his heart and the other pass ed about two inches from it. He fell up on his face with his gun under him. By the orders of Capt. Church, Phil ip was beheaded and quartered. 

 P8  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000008.xml 
 10 FIRST SETTLEMENT IN CASCO BAY. 1605 1 609 1617 gentlemen had been called to this part of Amer ica. Capt. George Weymouth,1 on his return from a voyage of discovery, mistook his course and dis covered the river Penobscot — whence he carried to England five Indians, one a Sagamore and three others of them persons of distinction. Sir Ferdi nando Gorges seized upon three of the natives, whom he kept in his family for the space of three years and then sent them back. From these Indians he gained much information respecting our shores and resolved to send hither a party with a view of ma king a settlement. In the year 1609, he purchas ed a ship and procured a master and crew. Among others, he sent Richard Vines — a man in whom he had the utmost confidence. Vines was an entei'prising man and a strong Episcopalian. He made several voyages for Gorges, when the latter gentleman, in con cert with Dr. Shutliffe, dean of Exeter, and other gentlemen, in the year 1615, fitted out several vessels, with a view to explore the country. In 1616 or 1617, we find Richard Vines and his companions again upon our coast, sent out by the indefatigable Gorges — a man who never yielded to discouragements. When they arrived, a destructive disease"2 prevailed among the natives, which is taken notice of by all the early wri ters of New England. The Indians cordially received Mr. Vines and treated him and Ms company with great kindness. The Englishmen visited the cabins and wigwams of the natives, without suffering from the i Capt. Weymouth sailed from the 2 This disease was thought by some Downs in March, 1605, with twenty- to be the yellow fever, and by others eight persons. He returned in July, the small pox. 

 P44  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000044.xml 
 46 GEORGE BURROUGHS. 1676 1680 to Pvdounce [the Providence] of our Lord God and desire your prayers also for us. Yours in all humility to sarve in the Lord, Brian Pendleton.1 Mr. Burroughs went to Salem village, Danvers, and succeeded Mr. Bayley in November, 1680. His sala ry was sixty pounds a year, to be paid Mm, one third in money, and two thirds in provisions, as follows : rye, barley, and malt at tM'ee shillings a bushel, corn at two shillings, beef at one and a half pence a pound, pork at two pence and butter at six pence. In conse quence of some dispute with his parish, he left them, and in May, 1683, Mr. Lawson was invited to fill Ms place. The same year, Mr. Burroughs returned to Falmouth. At a general meeting of the inhabitants, held the 20th of June, 1683, the following record is made : " Whereas there was formerly given to Mr. George Burroughs, minister, a parcel of land, judged to be about two hundred acres, and we being driven off by the Indians for a time, and in time reinhabit ing: therefore, for to give people incouragement to come and settle down among us in a body, we took i Brian Pendleton settled in Water- town about the year 1630, when he was thirty-one years of age.. For six years he represented the town in the General Court. He afterwards re- moved to Portsmouth and engaged in commerce. He represented that town for five years. 5He purchased two hundred acres of land in Saco, near Winter Harbor, where he settled in 1665. He was appointed Seargent- major of the military and held several offices under President Danforth's ad- ministration. He died in 1681, aged eighty; leaving two children. Bis son James removed to Stonington, Conn., and died, leaving four sons and one daughter, who married, in 1665, Rev. Seth Fletcher, minister of Wells, and who was afterwards settled in Sa- co. Pendleton Fletcher, their only child, was taken captive no less than four times by the Indians, and when he died, in 1 747, he left six sons, whose descendants have spread over the Union. 

 P4  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000004.xml 
 TT CONTENTS. FIKST SETTLEMENT OF CASCO BAY. First permanent settlement ill Maine, 1 G30— attention called to this section of the country as early as 1605 — Capt George Weymouth — his discovery / of the Penobscot— he takes five Indians to England— Sir Ferdinando Gor- ges—he sends vessels 'to America in 1609— Richard Vines — disease among the natives— Vines cordially received— his party stop at Winter Harbor— . Gorges obtains a grant from Plymouth colony — a charter from the crown- William Gorges — his 'government— councillors — Alexander Rigby takes possession of the colony — George Cleaves appointed his deputy — the course of Cleaves — he conveys lands in Casco and other places — Richmond's Island — Robert Jordan— Cleaves opens a court — a singular memorial — sub- mission to the Massachusetts' colony — the grant of Charles II — death of Gorges — heirs of Gorges — confusion of public affairs — John Usher — Char- ter incorporated -with Massachusetts Bay— Maine an independent State. FIRST ATTACK OF THE 5IND55fANS ON FALMOUTH. Philip — his adherents — Symon — his boast — Anthony Brackets — the treache- ry of Symon — the Indians' attack on the family of Brackets — letter by Thaddeus Clark — Elizabeth Harvey — account of the war— names of killed and prisoners — William Hubbard— Brackett and his family taken prison- ers — then' escape — George Felt — removal of 'the people to Jewel's Island — assault of the natives— rRichard Pots and wife — attack on Black Point — Mfigg — Madokawando— death of Mugg— Thomas Cobbet — his captivity — escape. CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. Directors of Portland Bank— Daniel George — a poem — fires — Samuel Free- man — sketch of his life — postmaster- — income of the Post-office — 5Mr. Free- man's removal from the office — his card— Gideon Granger — town officers — Register of Deeds — Representatives to the General Court — votes for Gov- ernor — fourth of July — oration— toasts — James D. Hopkins — Stephen Longfellow — Joseph Pope: — Elizabeth McLellan — William Gorham — Johrf Frothingham — Henry Wadsworth — his death— Peleg Wadsworth — his re- markable escape — Woobury Storer— Tobias Ham — Rufus lung — John Ta- ber & Son— John Howard — meeting previous to election — names of vigilant committees-merchants in Portland — dwelling houses built — population — marriages — deaths. ISee third page of Cover.] 

 P55  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000055.xml 
 GEORGE BURROUGHS. The father of Burroughs — he graduates — comes to Falmouth— is driven from his house by the Indians— goes to Bangs's Island— Henry. Jocelyn— he is appointed Deputy Governor— removes to Prout's Neck — is appointed Sen- ior Justice — retires to Pemaquid — removes to Plymouth — he marries the . widow Commock — becomes embarrassed — his son Henry — John Jocelyn— Brian Pendleton — his letter — Anthony and Thomas Brackett— Major Wal- dron — settles at Dover — representative to the General Court — his stratagem — sends two hundred Indians to Boston — revenge of the savages — strata- gem of the Indians — Mesandowit — bravery of Waldron — his painful death — Bryan Pendleton a representative — he removes to Portsmouth — settles in Saco— appointed Sergeant Major — his death — his children — Mr. Burroughs goes to Salem village — preaches — his salary — he leaves Salem and returns to Falmouth — his liberality — he retreats to Wells— is accused of witchcraft — the indictment — witnessess — his trial — singular testimony of the bewitched — his feats of strength — Elizur Keysar's testimony — holding a gun at arm's length — Ruck's testimony — the verdict of the court — the sentence of death passed upon him — he declares his innocence — addresses the people — repeats the Lord's • prayer before his death — his children — descendants — Isaiah Thomas. CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND SEVEN. William Symmes — Maine bank broken open — Rev. Mr. Noyes — Nathaniel Knights — shock of an earthquake — Abigail Taylor — night Watch — William Thompson — Jonathan Scott — his house consumed — Zephaniah Harding — freshetsA-the mail stage swept away — Samuel Foxcroft — annual town meet- ing — officers chosen — vote? for Governor — votes respecting the separation of Maine from Massachusetts— centre school house — marriage of Jotham Davis — Pendleton Fletcher — thunder storm — stage struck by lightning — 6hock of an earthquake — Dr. Morrell attacked by a steer— Representatives to the General Court — Mehitable Meserve — singular death of William Ste- phens — Supreme Court-*-trial of Joseph Donnough — attorneys admitted to practice — Anthony Morse — accident on Fort Hill — Cotton street laid out — Bank street— high way robbers — Portland Lodge — fourth of July celebration — loss of the schooner Charles on the rocks near Richmond's Island — list of the drowned^-Joseph Williams— death of Joseph M'Keen— Commodore Preble— John Baker— Alexander Munroe— Dolly Taylor— Capt. David Smith — his severe afflictions and losses — Benevolent Society — John Patter- son— Josiah Converse— William Tyng— Thomas Hopkins— Judge Wilde- ordination of Edward Payson— merchants in Portland — dwelling houses built — population — marriages— deaths. 

 P6  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000006.xml 
 ILiAHUDJIJJ© W ME ■ CMS M IMffi^OT M HHSDBS L(M 

 P48  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000048.xml 
 50 GEORGE BURROUGHS. 1 690 Burroughs on some business, when he fixed his eyes intently upon him. The same evening, while Keysar was in his own house, in a room where there was no light, he saw strange appearances in the chimney, which seemed to him to be something like jelly that used to be in the water. He supposed he saw a dozen of them, which strangely quivered and then disappear ed. During the evening he saw a light up the chim ney, about the bigness of a hand, which seemed to be in motion. His maid saw the same, but Ms wife look ed and could not see it He concluded it was some diabolical operation. One of the witnesses was tMown into a state of horror, upon seeing the ghosts of Mr. Burroughs's wife, which then appeared before him crying for ven geance. Other witnesses being called in, affirmed that they saw the same spirits before them. The testimony of several individuals was received, who testified that they had been witches themselves, and that George Burroughs had been to witch-meet ings with them — that he had first seduced them into the snares of witchery — that he had promised them fine clothing — that he had brought thorns to them, for the afflicting of people, and that he exhorted them to bewitch all Salem village. It was testified, that al though Mr. Burroughs was a small man, he had taken up a gun, the barrel of wMch was seven feet in length, and held it out at arm's length — that he made notMng of takmg up barrels of cider and molasses and carry ing them off, through most difficult places. Two of the witnesses testified that Mr. Burroughs, by merely putting the fore finger of Ms right hand into the 

 P23  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000023.xml 
 25 ATTACK OF THE INDIANS ON FALMOUTH. 1676 had but a servant or two left, Mr. Josselyn was oblig ed to surrender. The servants were taken by the In dians, but were treated kindly by them. Thomas Cobbet, who resided on Richmond's Island, was taken captive by the savages. He was first wounded by a shot and then his hands were closely tied. In the division of the captives, Cobbet's lot fell to an Indian of the worst character. His duty wTas to manage a captured ketch, in sailing to Sheepscot and from thence to paddle a canoe with himself and mas ter to Penobscot, and afterwards to Mount Desert. He suffered severely from famine, cold, and fatigue, and fre quently the savage would draw Ms knife, threatening him with instant death, because he could not under stand his dialect. One day, while hunting, havmg been exposed to severe cold, he fell senseless to the earth, and would have perished but for the assistance of some humane hunters. His master, at one time, was drunk for five successive days, when he abused Mm unmercifully. Cobbet was obliged to escape to the woods to save his life. At the expiration of mne weeks he most fortunately escaped and returned to his friends. I 

 P26  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000026.xml 
 28 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. 1804 March a store occupied by Samuel Porter, with its contents, was destroyed by fire. Loss $4,500. A dwelling house belonging to John B. Lane, was also destroyed. March 20. Samuel Freeman,1 Esq. who was ap pointed Postmaster of Portland, under Dr. Franklin, was removed to give place to Thomas M. Prentiss. For the first eight years after Mr. Freeman was ap pointed Postmaster, his income was but little more than six dollars a year. For the second eight years, it had increased to twenty seven dollars a year ; and for the third eight years, his income increased to two hundred and forty seven dollars a year. When he left, Ms income was a thousand dollars a year. When Mr. F. relinquished Ms office, he published the followmg card : " Samuel Freeman hereby gives notice, that, in obedience to a late order of the Post master General, he shall deliver up Ms office of Dep uty Postmaster, to Thomas M. Prentiss, Esq. who is i Samuel Freeman was the oldest son of Enoch Freeman, a native of Eastham, Mass, who was born in May, 1 706, graduated at Harvard College, in 1729, and established himself in Falmouth, 1742. The same year he married Mary Wright, who died in 1785. Enoch Freeman died Septem- ber 2, 1788, aged 82 years. Samuel was bom in Falmouth, June 15, 1743. In early life he was a teacher, a tra- der, and an attorney at law. In 1775, 1776, and 1778, he was a dele- gate to the Provincial Congress. He received from Government the office of Clerk of the Cumberland County Courts, which he held until 1820 — a period of forty-six years. In 1776, he was appointed Register of Probate. The same year he received the ap- pointment of Postmaster, which of- fice he retained for twenty-nine years. In 1773, Mr. Freeman united himself to Mr. Smith's church, where he was afterw-ards chosen deacon, the duties of which office he continued to dis- charge for more than forty years. Mr. Freeman died June 15th, 1831, aged 86 years. In November, 1777, he married Mary Fowle, of Watertown, who died in January, 1785, leaving three children. His second wife, 5M5rs. Betsey Jones, he married in 1786. She died in March, 1831, aged 77. By her he had six children — one of whom is Rev. Charles Freeman, for the last thirty years pastor of the Congrega- tional church in Limerick. Samuel Freeman was the author of the fol- lowing works : Town Officer ; Clerk's Magazine ; Probate Directory ; Ex- tracts from the Journals kept by the Rev. Thomas Smith. 

 P17  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000017.xml 
 19 ATTACK OF THE INDIANS ON FALMOUTH. 1676 Brackets, on resisting the savages, was killed on the spot. The following letter, written on the 16th of Au gust, 1676, is by an eye-witness of the bloody tragedy. Honoured Mother, After my duty and my wife's presented to yourselfe, these may inform you of [ the ] present health of our present being, when other of our friends are by the barbarous heathen cut off from having a being in this world. The Lord, [ of] late, hath renewed his wit nesses against vs, and hath dealt very bitterly with vs, in that we are deprived of the sociatie of our nearest friends by the breaking in of the adversarie against vs. On Friday last, in the morning, your own son with your two sons in Law, Anthony & Thomas Brack et, & their whole families were killed and taken by the Indians, we know not how ; tis certainly known by us that Thomas is slain & Ms wife & children car ried away captive ; & of Anthony & Ms family we haue no tidings & therefore tMnk that, they might be captivated the night before, because of the remoteness of their habitation from [our] neighborhood. Gin.1 Corban & all Ms family, Gm. Lewis & Ms wife, James Ross and all his family, Gm. Durham, John Munjoy & Daniel Wakely,2 Benjamin Hadwell3 and all Ms family, are lost, all slain by sun an hour Mgh in the Morning & after ; Gm. Wallis, his dwelling house & none besides his, is burnt. There are of men slain 11 ; of women & children, 23 killed & taken ;4 we that are i Gm. is a contraction of Good- man. Corban's christian name was T{0bert. 2 In one account of this Indian war, we have seen the name of Tsaac Wakely given, instead of Daniel. 3 This name is sometimes spelt Atwell. .,-.,, ,. 4 This coincides with Hubbard's statement, that thirty-four persons were killed and carried into captivity 

 P22  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000022.xml 
 24 ATTACK OF THE INDIANS ON FALMOUTH. 1676 band and carried away — he being unable to render them any assistance. One child, on seeing its father, made an effort to run to him in the water, but an In dian seized him and took him away. Mr. Potts at tempted to fire at the savage, but fearing he might kill his child he forebore. Two or three Indians were killed by shots from the garrison. One lad killed sev eral. A few of the English, in escaping from the Is land in a canoe towards Richmond's Island, met a small vessel, and to the men on board, they made known the situation of the people, who immediately went to their assistance and took them off. The In dians soon after appeared at Spurwink where they killed one man, wounded another and took one captive. On the 12th of October an assault was made on Black Point, in Scarborough, by Mugg,1 a cMef among the Androscoggin Indians, who was assisted with near ly a hundred warriors. The English, being gathered in one fortified place, might have easily driven off the savages ; but while the captain, Mr. Josselyn, went out to consult with Mugg, the people fled in fear from the garrison and took most of their effects with them. Not being able to make resistance on his return, as he i At the close of the war, Mugg was sent by Madokawando, chief of the Penobscot tribe of Indians, to Piscata- qua, to receive proposals from the En- glish, as the latter desired to treat about peace. The Penobscot chief had about sixty English captives at tins period. That Mugg might be kindly received, a captive accompanied him, who was to return to his home. Upon Mugg's arrival, he was seized by General Gen- da], of Massachusetts, forced on board of his vessel and carried to Boston. Madokawando's ambassador was now obliged to treat on such terms as the English proposed, and it is not singu- lar that when he was released, the In- dians should still continue enemies to the English. About one year from this time, Mugg appeared at Black Point and for three days beseiged the garrison, and killed three men. Mugg was accompanied by Symon, who had previously done so much mischief in Casco and other places. Lieutenant Tippin, the commander of the garri- son, made a successful shot and killed an Indian, who it was afterwards as- certained to be the daring Mugg. 

 P18  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000018.xml 
 20 ATTACK OF THE INDIANS ON FALMOUTH. 1676 aliue are forced upon Mr. Andrews his Island,1 to se cure our own & the Hues of our families. We haue but little provision and are so few in number that we are not able to bury the dead till more strength come to vs. The desire of the people to your seise is, that you would be pleased to speak to Mr. Munjoy & Dea con Philips that they would entreat the Governour2 that forthwith aid might be sent to vs, either to fight the enemie out of our borders, that our English Corn may be inned in whereby we may comfortably Hue, or remoue vs out of danger, that we may provide for our selues elsewhere. Having no more, at present, but desiring your prayers to God for Ms preservation of vs in these times of danger, I rest, your dutifull Son, ffrom Casco-bay. Thaddeus Clark.^ 16. 6. 76. Remember my Loue to my Sister, &c. These ffor his honoured Mother, Mris. Elizabeth Harvey,4 living in Boston. l Bangs's Island is here referred to. It once belonged to James Andrews. 2 George Munjoy was sent to Fal- mouth with fifteen hundred pounds of bread, which was a great relief to the half famished inhabitants. 3 Thaddeus Clark was one of the early settlers of Falmouth. He mar- ried the second daughter of Michael Mitton, and was himself killed by the Indians, with thirteen of the company he commanded, in the year 1 690. For this invaluable letter, which has prob- ably not seen the light for more than a century and a half, we are indebted to S. G. Drake, Esq. of Boston, who has recently come in possession of it. We think Mr. Clark was a native of Boston. He was probably the son of Thomas Clark. 4 Elizabeth Harvey was the mother of Mr. Clark's wife, by a former hus- band, 5Michael Mitton. Her present husband was, undoubtedly, Thomas Harvey, who was born in Boston, October 18, 1641 — who was a son of William and Joane Harvey. William Harvey died August 15. 1658, leaving four sons and one daughter. Abigail, who was bom the 25th of February, 1640. Mrs. Harvey died in 1682. 

 P52  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000052.xml 
 1807 Jan. CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND SEVEN. William Symmes — Maine bank broken open — Rev. 5Mr. Noyes — Nathaniel Knights — shock of an earthquake — Abigail Taylor — night watch — William Thompson — Jonathan Scott — his house consumed — Zephaniah Harding — freshets — the mail stage swept away — Samuel Foxcroft — annual town meet- ing — officers chosen — votes for Governor — votes respecting the separation of Maine from Massachusetts — centre school house — marriage of Jotham Davis — Pendleton Fletcher — thunder storm — stage struck by lightning — shock of an earthquake — Dr. Morrell attacked by a steer — Representatives to the General Court — Mehitable Meserve — singular death of William Ste- phens — Supreme Court — trial of Joseph Donnough — attorneys admitted to practice — Anthony Morse — accident on Fort Hill — Cotton street laid out — Bank street — high way robbers — Portland Lodge — fourth of July celebration — loss of the scnooner Charles on the rocks near Richmond's Island — list of the drowned — Joseph Williams — death of Joseph M'Keen — Commodore Preble — John Baker — Alexander Munroe — Dolly Taylor — Capt. David Smith — his severe afflictions and losses — Benevolent Society — John Patter- son — Josiah Converse — William Tyng — Thomas Hopkins—Judge Wilde — ordination of Edward Payson — merchants in Portland — dwelling houses built — population — marriages — deatlis. January 7. William Symmes, Esq. Counsellor at Law, died, aged 45 years. Mr. Symmes was the son of Rev. William Symmes,1 D. D. of Andover, Massa chusetts. He pursued Ms legal studies in Essex, Mas sachusetts, and was admitted to the bar in that County, and Ms admission was recognised by thea Cumberland bar at the October term in 1790, soon after he came to Portland. Mr. Symmes was a member of the conven- i Dr. Symmes graduated at Har- vard coUege in 1755, and for the sol- lowing three years was a tutor in that institution. He was ordained at An- dover in 1758, and died in'1807, aged 77 years. He published an election sermon and two other occasional ser mons. 

 P9  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000009.xml 
 11 FIRST SETTLEMENT IN CASCO BAY. 161 163 5 1636 contagion and finally pitched upon Winter Harbor at the mouth of the Saco river, to remain during the win ter season. Vines performed several voyages in the employ of Gorges ; but for how many years we are not informed. In 1635, Sir Ferdinando obtained a grant from the council of Plymouth, of all the land lying between the rivers Piscataqua and Sagadahock — the mouth of the Kennebec, and so far up the river as to make a square of one hundred and twenty miles. Sir Ferdinando ob tained from the king a charter of the soil and jurisdic tion over it. The crown never granted to any subject more powers than were given to Gorges.1 He enjoined little else than the establishment of the Episcopal forms of church government. Of the whole province Gorges was made Lord Palatine, with the same privi leges and powers as the Bishop of Durham, in the county of Palatine of Durham. To administer justice to the people, Sir Ferdinando, in 1636, sent over his nephew, William Gorges, to act in the capacity of Governor ; a man every way quali fied for his office. It was in Saco2 that he entered up on his duties. At this time this was the oldest and the most flourishing settlement in the Province. In the mean time Mr. Vines had acted as Governor, with the assistance of Richard Bonython. This year there were raised for the support of public worship, thirty i Gorges obtained of the lung, in confirmation of his own grant, a dis- tinct charter of the land from Piseat- aqua to Sagadahock, stvled The Province of Meyne. This name was given as a compliment to the Queen of Charles I. who owned, as her pri- vate estate in France, The Province of Meyne. a The Indian name of Saco river was Sawocotuck: hence the name of Saco—or Sawco, as it was formerly spelt. 

 P14  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000014.xml 
 16 FIRST SETTLEMENT IN CASCO BAY. 1677. 1820 Massachusetts colony, through their agent, John Ush er,1 Esq. afterwards Lieutenant Governor of New Hamp shire, purchased the interest of the patent for the sum of twelve hundred pounds sterling. Massachusetts now governed the territory in the manner the charter of Maine had directed, until 1684, at which period the charter was vacated. After the accession of William and Mary, in 1691, the province of Maine and the large territory eastward, extending as far as Nova Scotia, were, by charter, incorporated with Massa chusetts Bay. The district of Maine remained a part of Massachusetts, until the year 1820, when it was foimed mto an independent State. i Jolin Usher was born in Boston, and in early life followed the business of stationer. His austerity of man- ners made him unpopular 'with the people. He diedj'at Medford, Septem ber 5, 1726, aged 77 years. 

 P50  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000050.xml 
 52 GEORGE BURROUGHS. 16 9 2 man than George Burroughs never lived. There is not, perhaps, an act of his life, that would bring re proach upon his character. lie was just, benevolent, and pious — yet an eminent New England divine, co temporary with him, thus speaks in reference to his supposed criminality and trial : " His tergiversations, contradictions, and falsehoods were very sensible. Faultering, faulty, unconstant, and contrary answers, upon judicial and deliberate examination, are counted some unlucky symptoms of guilt in all crimes, espec ially in witchcrafts. Now there never was a prisoner more eminent for them than George Burroughs, both at Ms examination and on his trial. Glad should I have been, if I had never known the name of this man, or never have had this occasion to mention so much as the first letters of Ms name." George Burroughs was publicly executed, with five others, on the 19th of August, 1692. His age was not far from sixty. He declared his mnocence to the last ; but it was in vam, so great was the infatuation that prevailed. Just before Ms execution, he made an address, still asserting that he was innocent of the charges brought agamst him, and, in Ms dying prayer, repeated the Lord's prayer, probably, to vindicate Ms character — as it was the current opimon, that a witch could not correctly repeat this prayer. His supplica tion to God was uttered with so much composure and fervency, that it drew tears from the scores who came to witness his death. Mr. Burroughs left a third wife — the sister of Thom as Ruck, who was a witness agamst him — and several children. His daughter Rebecca married Mr. Tolman, 

 P53  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000053.xml 
 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND SEVEN. 55 tion that adopted the federal constitution, to which he ~ — - • 1807. and his constituents were at first opposed ; but when Jan he heard the able arguments in its favor, he was convinced of Ms error and resolved not to oppose it. He returned to Ms constituents and repeated the able arguments which had convinced him of his error, and told them that he could not, conscientiously, oppose the constitution. TMs honorable course excited their approbation, and after a general consultation with the people of Andover, they desired him to return to the convention and vote according to the dictates of his own conscience, and they would acquiesce in the re sult. He did so, and defended himself in an able speech to that learned body, and voted for the adop tion of the constitution. As a lawyer, Mr. Symmes ranked high among his cotemporaries. He was an able and eloquent advo cate. He also possessed a Mghly cultivated literary taste. A series of Ms articles, entitled " Communica tions," written about the year 1795, in defence of the common law against the political fanatics of that day, were masterly productions and were republished in the principal papers of the UMon. Mr. Symmes, with several other distinguished gentlemen, contributed to make the periodicals of this period interesting and valuable. Mr. Symmes had no family of his own, but he was zealously interested in the education of youth. January 12. The Maine Bank was broken into Saturday evening and robbed of about two thousand dollars. An Irishman was apprehended and a part of the money discovered under a barn, concealed in old oair of Dantaloons. 

 P28  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000028.xml 
 30 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. 1804 March April. March 26. At the town meeting the following offi cers were chosen : Town Clerk. Stephen Patten. Town Treasurer. Lemuel Weeks. Collector of Taxes. George Warren. Selectmen. Samuel Freeman, John Mussey, Joseph Titcomb, Joseph H. Ingraham, Joshua Rogers. Fire Wards. Ebenezer Mayo, Hugh M'Lellan, Dan iel Tucker, Nathamel Fosdic, Woodbury Storer, Robert Boyd, Lemuel Weeks, Joshua Rogers, Thomas Web ster, John Mussey, James Neal, Richard Hunnewell. Health Committee. Joshua Rogers, Josiah Tucker, Asa Clapp, Woodbury Storer, Joseph H. Ingraham, Samuel F. Hussey, John Mussey, Matthew Cobb, Da vid Green. For the office of Register of Deeds the following gentlemen were candidates : Elias Merrill, Gardner Gould, Isaac Gage, Stephen Waite, Thomas B. Waite, Levi Cutter, Isaac Adams, Ebenezer Mayo, Stephen Patten, Joseph Titcomb, Andrew R. Giddings, George E. Vaughan, Nathamel Moody, Samuel Stephenson, Joseph C. Boyd, and John Frothingham. Mr. Merrill was finally elected and held the office until his death, whicMoccurred in 1824, when he was 63 years of age. April 2. At a meeting of the inhabitants of Port land, at the Court House, for the choice of Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Senators, and Counsellors, the result was as follows : Governor. Caleb Strong had 406 votes ; James Sul livan, 159 ; Chadwick, 1 ; William Hall, 1. Lieidenant Governor. Edward H. Robbins, 406 ; William Heath, 156 ; Barnabas Bidwell, 1. 

 P37  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000037.xml 
 39 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. 1804 Dean, James and Eliza Wood. Day, Calvin and Mary Farnam. Dennison, Solomon and Mary Warren. Drew, Andrew and Lydia Warren. DeCosta, John and Anna Adams. Emerson, James and Almira Bowers. Ervin, John and Martha Drinkwater. Emberley, Stephen and Mehitable Sweet. Flood, James and Eliza Parsons. Foster, Charles and Nancy Poland. Flinn, Thomas and Mary Jones. Farmer, James and Betsey Webb. Griffin, William P. and Rachel Wiswall. Green, Richard and Sally Crowninshield. Hopkins, James D. and Dorcas Tucker. Hart, Francis and Sally Baker. Harinan, John and Betsey Riggs. Hall, Simeon and Harriet Thrasher. Herbert John and Mary Voax Clinton. Huston, William and Elizabeth Eusties. Ingraham, James Milk and Eliza Thurston. Jones, Henry and Mary Windship. Jenks, Robert and Sarah Rivers. Jordan, Ezekiel and Nabby Bailey. Jordan, Jeremiah and Rebecca Rice. Kain, Thomas and Lydia Ingersoll. Keaton, Walter and Sarah Wiswall. Longfellow, Stephen and Zilpah Wadsworth. Lovis, Josiah and Martha Bailey. Lombard, Ephraim and Jane Larrabee. Lake, John and Zeruiah Ruby. Mayberry, Samuel and Sally Pettengill. 

 P35  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000035.xml 
 37 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. 1804 Dec Chamberlain, Hugh McLellan, Stephen Tukey, Samuel Stephenson, Ebenezer Storer, Eleazer A. Jenks, Thom as B. Waite, William B. Peters, John Morse, Seth Phillips, Seth Bird, Francis Chase, Joshua Dyer, Dan iel Cobb, John Leavitt, William Symmes, Thomas Del ano, Albert Newhall, Daniel Johnson, Isaac McLellan, Daniel Tucker, James D. Hopkins, Jeremiah Perry. November 27. At a town meeting held in Minot, the people consented to the incorporation of a Congre gational Society. Ayes, 54 ; nays, 29. December 5. Rev. John Turner was installed pas tor of the second religious society in Biddeford. DeC55EMBer 8. Walter, son of Thomas Starbnd, was drowned in Capisic mill pond. His age was 15. He fell through the ice. Among the merchants in Portland tins year, were — Jonathan Leeds, Enoch Moulton, Shirley Erving, Sam uel Trask, Isaac Adams, Abijah Cheever, Jeremiah W. Smith, Eleazer Greely, Day & Hsley, William Lord, L. Weeks & Son, David Dana, Lord & Thomas, Cod man & Swan, Nathaniel Jenks, James C. Ballard, Thomas Cross, Farrell, Dickinson & Co., W. & C. Hatch, Ebenezer Humphreys. During the past year, upwards of six hundred dwell ing houses were built in Portland, some of which were the following : Lemuel Weeks's, India street ; Abra ham Osgood's, Green street ; Jacob Noyes's, Free street — now belonging to Charles Jones ; Joseph Vea zie's, Chesnut street; Mr. Washburn's, Cumberland street — now owned by Ezekiel WMtman ; Rogers's and Codman's, Cross street- — now belonging to Edward 

 P33  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000033.xml 
 35 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. 1 804 Sept. installed under the direction of Hon. Woodbury Stor er.1 A discourse was delivered by Rev. Mr. Turner. September 22. The arch over the Back Cove Bridge gave way this morning, which rendered passing it im possible for several days. September 28. Hon. Rufus King,'3 who had been Minister Plenipotentiary from the United States to the Court of St. James, while on a visit to his native State, was received by the citizens of Portland by a public dinner at Columbian Hall.3 Judge Benson, who was formerly Chief Justice of the Circuit Court of the United States for New York District was present on the occasion. Hon. Woodbury Storer presided. Mat thew Cobb, Lemuel Weeks and Ebenezer Mayo, offici ated as Vice Presidents. The following toast was given by Judge Benson : i Woodbury Storer was a native of Wells, but in early life he settled in Portland. In 1780, he married Anne, daughter of Mr. Benjamin Titcomb ; she dying in a few years, he again married, Margaret, daughter of James Boyd of Boston, who died in Boston, aged about 74 years. Mr. S.died in 1825, aged 65. Bellamy Storer, of Cincin- nati, and Woodbury Storer of Port- land, are his sons. 2 Rufus King was the son of Rich- ard King of Scarborough, who died March 28, 1775. Rufus was born in 1755. He graduated at Harvard Col- lege in 1777. He was aid to John Sullivan, in 1778, in an expedition against the British in Rhode Island. In 1780, he was admitted to the bar in Newburyport and was soon after chosen a representative to the Legis- lature. He was a member of the con- vention in 1787, to form the constitu- tion of the United States. Having married, in 1786, the daughter of John Alsop, a merchant of New York, in 1788, he removed to that city. In 17S9, he was elected senator to the Congress of the United States. In 1796, he was appointed by Washing- ton Minister Plenipotentiary. At the English Court he remained through John Adams's administration and two years of that of Mr. Jefferson's. Af- ter his return in 1 803, he lived retired till the war of 1812. Having taken a conspicuous part on the side of his country, he was in 1813, appointed a senator of the United States. In 1820, he was re-elected to the same office. On retiring from the .Senate in 1825, he was induced by John Quincy Ad- ams to proceed again as Minister to the English Court. But during his voyage, he was attacked with a disease, which prevented him from entering upon his duties. In one year he re- turned to his family at Jamaica, Long Island, where he lingered till April 29th when he died, aged 72 years. 3 This Hall was in a building oppo- site the Market House, Middle Street. It was removed a few years since, to give place to a brick Block. 

 P21  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000021.xml 
 23 ATTACK OF THE INDIANS ON FALMOUTH. 1676 and children into a canoe, to see what the matter was ; but when he came near a point of land, not far off, he found several of his neighbor's goods, which made Mm conclude that their owners were killed, and which was a sufficient warning to him likewise to fly for his life, wMch he did to the same island. After a number of them had escaped thither, they recollected that they had left powder beMnd them in one or two places ; Avhereupon they determined to venture a party of them in the night, to prevent the Indians from having ad vantage thereby, and for then own defence, if occasion should require ; accordingly their attempt succeeded well, for they brought away a barrel of powder from the house of one Wells, and likewise a considerable quantity out of a chest in a store-house, where the In dians had been ransacking, and had taken firings out of the other end of the chest, yet overlooked the powder. After these depredations were committed by the Indians, several families removed to Jewel's Island — hoping there to be more secure ; but m a few weeks the Indians, to a considerable number, finding no re sistance made, went to the Island with the intention of destroying it. In the mean time the English had re paired to a fortified house, where they expected to be secure. But when the Indians made an assault upon the garrison, most of the people were absent, except ing women and children. Richard Potts, with two of Ms companions, were in a boat, employed in fishing, while Ms wife was washing clothes near the shore, with her children by her side. Mrs. Potts and the children were taken by the Indians in the presence of her hus- 

 P10  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000010.xml 
 12 FIRST SETTLEMENT IN CASCO BAY. 163 6 1644 pounds. The number of the colonists assessed to pay the amount, was twenty-one. The whole number of people who composed the settlement, at this period, was about one hundred and sixty. The system adopted in his government by Gorges, was, to retain the power in his own hands and appoint, of his own selection, a council of seven, and also to provide for a branch, consisting of representatives cho sen by the people. He prepared a transcript of his charter and commissioned councillors to execute then trust and read their instructions to the people, that they might know how they were governed. The com mission, under Ms hand and seal, is dated September 2, 1639. His permanent councillors were as follows : Thomas Gorges,1 Deputy Governor ; Richard Vines, of Saco ; Henry Joscelyn, of Black Point ; Francis Charn pernoon, of Piscataqua ; Richard Bonython, of Saco ; William Hook, of Agamenticus, and Edward Godfrey, of Piscataqua, [Kittery] Thomas Gorges, after the expiration of his mission, which expired in 1644, returned to England. The success of republican principles in the mother country, induced Alexander Rigby — a man of piety and wealth — to become the purchaser of this grant. According ly, in April, 1643, he took possession of the country. He commissioned George Cleaves,2 who had lived for thirteen years at Spurwink, and on the neck at Fal- i Thomas Gorges was a cousin to Sir Ferdinando. Champemoon was his nephew. The latter died in 1687. Two of Ids daughters married broth- ers by the name of Cutts. Another married Humphrey Elliot. 2 In the year 1630, George Cleaves, in connection with Richard Tucker, carried on business at the mouth of Spurwink river, Cape Elizabeth. As the friend of Cleaves, Tucker took a deep interest in his affairs, and when the difficulty arose between Vines and Cleaves, the former used Tucker roughly on his visit to Saco and threw him in prison. 

 P57  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000057.xml 
  

 P40  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000040.xml 
 42 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. 1804 Prentiss, Mrs. Abba 22. Partridge, Elizabeth 41. Pote, Mary 53. Smith, Benjamin 24. Shattuck, Miss Milly 19. Shaw, Josiah 53. Pierce, Samuel 70. Pettingell, Daniel 67. Richardson, Mrs. Eunice 26 Smith,1 Capt. David 29. Stevens, William S. 27. Smith, Capt. Lendall 32. Titcomb,2 Moses 20 Vaughan, Mrs. Hannah 42. Vaughan, James 44. Walton, Mrs. Hannah The number of Marriages m Portland, this year was 104. Number of Births, 150. Number of Deaths, — Males, 24 ; Females, 28 ; Children, under 12 years, 83. Total, 135. i Capt. Smith died at Port Anto- He was a member of Harvard Uni- ilia, Jamacia. versity. a 55Mr. Titcomb died at Cambridge. 

 P3  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000003.xml 
 € |) rani r I i s OF CA SCO BAY. Generations to come will applaud the wisdom, integrity, and wonderful perseverance of the first planters of our shores. — Edward Russell. PORTLAND: AN BORN AND CARTER. MDCCCL. Press of A. Shirley & son. 

 P2  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000002.xml 
  

 P42  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000042.xml 
 44 GEORGE BURROUGHS. 1 676 ly sent a letter to Henry Jocelyn,1 of Black Point, for assistance. On the receipt of this letter Major Brian Pendleton, of Saco, addressed a line to the " Honour ed Governor and Counsell for the Matachusets at Bos ton, with all speed," dated " Winter Harbour, at night, the 13 of August, 1676," of which the following is a copy: Honoured Governor, TOGETHER WITH THE CoUNSELL : I am sorry my pen must bee the messenger of soe greate a tragedye. On the 11 of this instance wee heard of many killed of our naybors in Falmouth, or Casco Bay; and on the 12 instant, Mr. Joslyn sent mee a briefe letter written from under the hands of Mr. Burras. [Burroughs.] Hee gives an account of 32 killed and carried away by the Indians : Mmselfe escaped to an Island, but I hope Black poynt men have 1 This name is sometimes spelt Jos- sclyn, Joscelyn, and Joslin. Henry Jocelyn came from England, about the year 1634. He was one of the commissioners of Gorges's court, held at Saco in March, 1636 — this being the first organized government in the State. When 55Mr. Vines left the coun- try, so high was the standing of 5Mr. Jocelyn that he was appointed Depu- ty Governor the remainder of the year. About the year 1643, he remov- ed to Prout's neck, Scarborough, where he lived for a period of twenty-five years. When the king's commission- ers, in 1665, undertook to form a gov- ernment for Maine and Sagadahock, he was appointed Senior Justice for both Provinces. In 1668, when Mas- sachusetts resumed her authority, he retired to Pemaquid, where he lived till the breaking out of King Philip's war in 1675, when he removed to the Plymouth colony and there passed the remainder of his days. Mr. Jocelyn married the widow of Thomas Com- mock — who had a grant in 1630 of fifteen hundred acres between the riv- er Spurwink and Black Point, includ- ing Stratton's Island, now known ley the name of Bluff Island. Commock died on a voyage to the West Indies in 1643, having previously conveyed five hundred acres of his estate to his wife, and the residue to Henry Joce- lyn — he dying childless. Previous to the removal of Jocelyn from Prout's neck, he became embarrassed in his circumstances and assigned his prop- erty to Joshua Scottow of Boston, who afterwards occupied the estate. Mr. Jocelyn left one son, Henry, who became the father of thirteen children. While 5Mr. Jocelyn resided at Prout's neck, his brother John spent nearly a year with him, collecting facts for a work, now very rare, entitled " Voyag- es," published about the year 1672. 

 P58  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000058.xml 
  

 P38  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000038.xml 
 40 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. Mulloy, William and Hannah Sawyer. Moody, William and Rachel Riggs. Mire, John and Elizabeth Gooclnow. Moulton, Enoch and Sally Searl. M'Graw, Jeremiah and Mary Humphreys. Nason, Benjamin and Hannah G. Vaughan. Nugent, John and Jane WMte. 1804. Pierce, Johnson and Frances How. Pierce, Eli and Betsey White. Pierce, William and Mary Blake. Patch, Dustin and Submit Shurtlief. Prince, Joel and Sukey Morse. Pearson, Henry and Sarah Sawyer. Patterson, John and Lucy Peters. Rich, Benjamin and Nabby Meserve. Richardson, Thomas and Rebecca Wescot. Rowe, Thomas and Sophy Hemmenway. Riggs, Enoch and Nancy Constable. Rubee, Ebenezer and Matilda Chadwick. Richards, Samuel and Rebecca Badger. Smith, Michael and Anna Battelle. Snelling, John and Margaret Scot. Sullivan, John and Sukey Green. Shaw, Enoch and Betsey King. Smith, Thomas and Sally Sears. Sanders, Ningo and Sally Ambee. Slater, James and Priscilla Roberts. Shepherd, Tristram and Sally Smith. Starboard, Samuel and Eunice Bailey. Sullivan, Darnel and Sukey Green. Shullabar, Laman and Rhoda Rowe. Tandy, Thomas and Betsey Austin. 

 P43  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000043.xml 
 45 GEORGE BURROUGHS. 1676 fetched him us by this time. 10 men, 6 women, and 16 children. Anthony1 ad [and] Thomas Baket, [Brackets] and Mr. Munjoy, his sonne onely are named. I had not time to coppye the letter, persons beinge to goe post to major Walden ;2 but I hope he hath, before this, sent the originall to you. How soon it will be our portion wee know not. The Lord, in mercy, fit us for death and direckt yL' harts and hands to ack and doe wt. [what] is most needfull in such a time of distress as this. Thus, in haste, I commit you i Anthony Bracked was then sup- posed to be killed, but he was only made a prisoner and afterwards escap- ed from the savages. 2 Richard Waldron came from En- gland in 1635, and settled in Dover, N. H. He commenced a plantation at Cocheco (Dover) in 1640. For twen- ty two years he was representative to the General Court and for several years speaker of the house and presi- dent. In the Indian war of 1676, whilst " Sergent Maior," he received instructions to seize all the Indians concerned in the war. Four hundred natives assembled at his house. The English wished to attack them but Major Waldron wished to take them by stratagem. He proposed a sham fight and after the Indians had fired the first volley he made them all pris- oners. He dismissed the friendly In- dians and retained about two hun- dred and sent them to Boston. Some of them were hung and others sold as slaves in foreign parts, while a few made their escape. The course pur- sued by the Major awoke feelings of revenge in the breasts of the savages, which was not gratified till the expira- tion of more than twelve years. When King William's war broke out in North Yarmouth and other places, in August, 1688, the following stratagem was adopted by the Indians for the taking of Dover. Two squaws were sent to each garrisoned house in the evening to ask for lodging, for the pur- pose of opening the" doors and the gates in the night : the signal to be given by a whistle. The plan being ripe for execution, on Thursday, the 27th of June, 1689, two squaws ap- plied to each garrison for lodging and were- admitted. Mesandowit, a chief, was kindly entertained by Waldron, as he had often been before. Mesan- dowit, while at supper, familiarly ask- ed the Major, what he would do if the strange Indians should come ? He replied that by lifting his finger he could assemble a hundred men. When all was quiet the signal was given and the doors were opened. The Indians entered Waldron's apartment. Hear- ing the noise, he jumped out of bed, seized bis sword and with much vigor the brave old man drove them through two or three rooms. As he was retir- ing for his other arms, he was seized from behind, stunned with a blow from a hatchet, forced into his hall and put into an elbow chair, which was placed upon a table, they insultingly asking him, — " Who shall judge Indians now !" They obliged the people in the house to get them victuals, after eating which they struck the Major across the breast with a knife, each one as he cut. exclaiming, " I cross out my account." They cut oft' his ears and nose and forced them into his mouth. When, weak with loss of blood, ho was falling from the table, an Indian held bis sword under him, which pierc- ed him to the heart, and he immedi- ately died. Major Waldron was eighty years of age. The Indians al- so killed his son-in-law, Abraham Lee, and set his house on fire. In all there were twenty-three persons killed and twenty-nine taken captives. 

 P36  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000036.xml 
 38 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. 1 804 Howe and William Cammett; Noah Harding's, Con gress street ; Lemuel Bryant's, Middle street. The population of Portland, tMs year, was about 4650. MARRIAGES IN PORTLAND. Adams, Bartlett and Charlotte Neal. Ames, John and Aphia Pote. Anderson, John and Hannah Jones. Balfour, James and Polly Thomes. Brasbridge, George Walker and Sally Willey. Bangs, Thomas and Hannah H. Shaw. Baker, Joseph and Elizabeth Hale. Badger, John and Jenny Waters. Bradbury, William and Olive Mitchell. Badger, Samuel and Sally Willey. Bradbury, David and Polly Henshaw. Brown, Aaron and Olive Mitchell. Chase, Salmon and Sarah Tyng Waldo. Conant, George and Mary Pote. Clark, Josiah and Elizabeth Newman. Corbet, William and Sally Moses. Cochran, Timothy and Lovey Lord. Catin, Walter and Sarah Wiswall. Cobb, Samuel and Sally Lunt. Crosby, Cato and Rhoda M'Farland. Cross, Thomas and Laura Sandford. Cobb, Jonathan and Bathsheba Teaton. Cutler, Peter and Sukey Davis. Cowan, John and Sally Merrill. Cross, William and Eliza Stevens. Davis, Nathan and Eunice Caldwell. 

 P30  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000030.xml 
 32 CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. 1 804 July. Second Parish, where an oration was pronounced by Stephen Longfellow,1 Esq. The procession returned to Union Hall, where a sumptuous dinner was prepar ed. Among the toasts given were the following : The Memory of Washington. We will revere it till memory itself shall die, and gratitude shall cease to be a virtue. John Adams. The pride of Ms country and an hon or to the world. May the evemng of his days be as happy as the morning of Ms life was glorious. The American Eagle. May its wings protect its friends and its talons crush its enemies. The Hall was finely decorated for the occasion. Portraits of Washington, Adams, and Pmckney were hung m the room. Mr. Longfellow's oration was afterwards published. In Gorham, Samuel WMtmore, Esq. delivered an oration. In North Yarmouth, Mr. Jabez Woodman was the orator of the day. In Windham, Joseph Pope, Esq. pronounced an ora- l Stephen Longfellow was the grandson of Stephen Longfellow, who was born in Newbury, in the year 1723 — graduated at Harvard College in 1742, and came to Falmouth in April, 1745, and opened a school. 5In 1 749, he married Tabitha Bragdon, of York, by whom he had three sons and one daughter. Stephen, his oldest son, married Patience Young of York. These wore the parents of the orator. Stephen was born in Gorham, in 1776, and graduated at Harvard CoUege in 1798. He soon after established him- self in Portland, in the practice of law, and was eminently successful. He was a member of the Hartford Convention in 1814, and afterwards a member of Congress. He married the daughter of Gen. Peleg Wadsworth. Professor Longfellow, of Cambridge, the poet and scholar, is a son of this gentleman. 55E5Iis death occurred in the fall of 1849, at the age of 73 years. 5Mr. Longfellow was, in every respect, a good man. He was kind and gene- rous and always ready to do a favor, no matter how poor and humble the individual who solicited it. We can speak of the good qualities of his heart from personal experience. He died in the full assurance of a better life — having in the early part of his career, made a public profession of Christianity. 

 P41  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000041.xml 
 1670 GEORGE BURROUGHS. The father of Burroughs — he graduates — comes to Falmouth — is driven from his house by the Indians — goes to Bangs's Island — Henry Jocelyn — he is appointed Deputy Governor — removes to Prout's Neck — is appointed Sen- ior Justice — retires to Pemaquid — removes to Plymouth — he marries the widow Commock — becomes embarrassed — his son Henry — John Jocelyn — Brian Pendleton— his letter — Anthony and Thomas Brackets — Major Wal- dron — settles at Dover — representative to the General Court— his stratagem — sends two hundred Indians to Boston — revenge of the savages — strata- gem of the Indians — Mesandowit — bravery of Waidron — his painful death — Bryan Pendleton a representative — he removes to Portsmouth — settles in Saco — appointed Sergeant Major— his death — his children — Mr. Burroughs goes to Salem village — preaches — his salary — he leaves Salem and returns to Falmouth — his liberality — he retreats to Wells — is accused of witchcraft — the indictment — witnessess — his trial — singular testimony of the bewitched — his feats of strength— Elizur Keysar's testimony — holding a gun at arm's length — Ruck's testimony — the verdict of the court — the sentence of death passed upon him — he declares his innocence — addresses the people — repeats the Lord's prayer before his death — his children — descendants — Isaiah Thomas. George Burroughs was the son of Jeremiah Bur roughs of Scituate, Massachusetts. He graduated at Harvard University in 1670, and was admitted a mem ber of the church in Roxbury, April 12, 1674. He had his son George baptized there, November 28, 1675. He came to Falmouth in 1674 and preached to the people, when, probably, there were not more than forty or fifty families in town. His house stood a little south of the First Parish Church, probably not far from where the Market House now stands, from which he was driven by the Indians, August 11th, 1676. He escaped to Andrews's [Bangs's] Island and immediate- 

 P47  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000047.xml 
 49 GEORGE BURROUGHS. 16 90 hand upon a book, which was shown lo her, making his boasts that he was a conjurer above the common order of witches. Because she refused to do as she was bidden, cruel pains were inflicted upon her. Some times the prints of teeth would be seen on her arms. which prints corresponded exactly with the teeth of Mr. Burroughs. Others testified to the same thing. When they cried that George Burroughs was biting them, the print of his teeth would immediately be seen on their flesh. Another female testified, that George Burroughs had taken her into a very high mountain and showed her mighty kingdoms, which were promised to her if she would but write in his book ; but on her refusal, she suffered excruciating pains. Another testified that Burroughs tempted her to go to a sacrament, when she perceived him with a trumpet, sounding it loud to summon other witches, who immediately came from all quarters to the rendezvous. Several others testified, that they had been troubled with the apparitions of two women, who stated that they were the wives of Mr. Burroughs and that he had been the cause of their death. They were told by the spirits to inform the magistrate of the fact, when he should be on trial, or they should themselves appear in court. They were also mformed, that Mr. Burroughs had killed, in addition to several others, a Mrs. Law son and her daughter. It was noticed by the court that these persons were the wife and daughter of one with whom Mr. Burroughs might have had a prejudice. A man by the name of Elizur Keysar, forty years of age, testified that he had been called to see Mr. 

 P7  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000007.xml 
 CHRONICLES OF CASCO MY. FIRST SETTLEMElTTTN CASCO BAY. First permanent settlement in Maine, 1C30 — attention called to this section of the country as early as 1605 — Capt. George Weymouth — his discove- ry of the Penohscot— he takes five Indians to England — Sir Ferdinand Gorges — lie sends vessels to America in 1609 — Richard Vines — disease among the natives — Vines cordially received — his party stop at Winter Harbor — Gorges obtains a grant from Plymouth colony — a charter from the crown — William Gorges — his government — councillors — Alexander Rigby takes possession of the colony — George Cleaves appointed his deputy — the course of Cleaves — he conveys lands in Casco and other places— Richmond's Island — Robert Jordan — Cleaves opens a court — a singular memorial — submission to the Massachusetts colony — the grant of Charles II — death of Gorges — heirs of Gorges — confusion of public af- fairs — John Usher — Charter incorporated with Massachusetts Bay — Maine an independent State. In the year 1630, the first permanent settlement was effected in Maine, by people who emigrated from the Plymouth colony. This year, says an old writer, "Bryan Brincks, John Smith, and others, went into New England and settled themselves in Casco Bay, near unto the south side of the river Sagadahock, [Kennebec,] and laid out several sums of money there, made laws and constitutions, &c. for the governing of said Province." As early as the year 1605, however, the attention of several 1 630 

 P34  File:  ../../decrypted/000624240/ALTO/000624240_000034.xml 
 30 1804 Oct. Nov. CHRONICLES OF EIGHTEEN HUNDRED AND FOUR. The town of Portland — a nursery of seamen : a nurse ry of prowess and enterprise. John Taber & Son issued small bills, which were ta ken pretty freely in town, but failing soon after, their bills became worthless. Scores of the poor suffered in consequence. October 10. Mr. John Richards was accidentally run over by Ms own trucks and died in a few minutes. Capt. John Howard died at Augusta, aged 71. He was deprived of his reason for upwards of forty years. In the year 1755, he held the second command at Fort Western, which was erected as a defence against the Indians. In 1759 he was entrusted with despatches from Gen. Amherst, wMch had been forwarded from Crown Point, to deliver to Gen. Wolfe, then beseiging Quebec. To accomplish this, he was obliged to per form a journey of nearly two hundred miles, through an almost unbroken wilderness. October 30. Col. Samuel March died in Scarbo rough, aged 74. He left ten children, fifty eight grand children, and eight great grand children. November 3. A meeting was held tMs evemng to take some measures respecting the election to take place on the Monday following. Samuel Freeman, Esq. was called to the chair, and Joseph Swift appointr ed Secretary. It may be interesting to publish the names of the vigilant committee appointed on this evening — all but two of whom, Messrs. Bird and New hall, are now [1850] sleeping in the dust : — William Jenks, Walter Hatch, Lemuel Weeks, Woodbury Stor er, Rufus Washburn, Smith Cobb, James Neal, John Taber, Salmon Chase, William Moult on, Jr., Nathaniel