

 P78  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000078.xml 
 54 THE LOWER GREENSAND. A great depression of the Lower Greensand begins at Bonchurch, and extends to near Rocken End, where, as between Bonchurch and Ventnor, it dis appears entirely, and is apparently hidden beneath the shore. Some idea of the extent of the depression may be gleaned from the fact that west of Luccombe the junction bed occupies a position probably from ioo to 150 feet above the shore, and is found level with the shore near the east side of the Gas House at Ventnor. This depression takes place in less than two miles. It can be traced at the west end of Mill Bay, below Ventnor ; from this spot it again disappears, until Binnel Bay is reached, where it again crops out on the shore between the latter place and Puckaster Cove ; here it again takes a slight rise, and appears in a low cliff on the east side of the slope, up which the fishermen wind their boats. Small patches of it appears above Watershute Bay, near the lighthouse. Following from thence the cliff path, we reach the foot of the landslip below (Gore Cliff), and the wild ruin brought about by that catastrophe bursts at at once into view. Chale Bay is next reached, a few yards west of which the white sands appear which form the supposed upper deposits of the Atherfield section, and from here the elevation of strata begins. The junction bed between the Gault and Lower Greensand is described as a" solid and hard mass at Folkestone, about eighteen inches thick, jutting out beyond the clay above and the sand beneath, glittering with metallic pyrites, and seamed with glassy crystals and selenite. There is that curious conglomerate of rounded potato-like lumps of phosphate of lime, and scraggy gnarled boughs of trees. The gnarly boughs 

 P285  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000285.xml 
 Œfce Uentnor Collection. \^Jt\\ ATING from the formation of the present @| h"|) Museum at Newport, in 1854, I am not if aware of any recorded attempt of the inhabi- i^Atj). tants of any of the other towns in the Island T&* besides Newport, and latterly Ventnor, to establish either a Museum or even the nucleus of one ; to the latter Ventnor can only at present lay claim, as the only available space is around the walls of the Hall of the Literarv Institute, which are utilised for the purpose by the erection of spacious wall cases, occupying nearly- the whole length of the Hall, and are filled with several tiers of shelves, on which the fossils from the formations of the different divisions of which the strata of the Island are com posed are arranged and named in the order in which they occur, so that the contents can be examined seriatnmm The following formations are represented : 1. The Wealden case contains Saurian reptilian remains with the mollusca, consisting of univalve and bivalve shells. The shelves above contain numerous specimens from the Lower Greensand and its divisions, after Dr. Fitton. 

 P119  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000119.xml 
 GORE CLIFF. 83 the north face is a tablet, recording the original purpose of its erection, by Michael Hay, Esq., which is, " To commemorate the visit of the Emperor Alexander of Russia to England, in 1814, and as a remembrance of many happy years' residence in his dominions." There is also another tablet affixed to its south face, by Lieut. H. W. Dawes, of the 22nd Foot, in memory of the English soldiers who fell in the Crimean war ; thus making the column do double duty. Retracing our steps eastward from Blackgang, where the great wall of the Undercliff terminates, and follow ing the road beneath the cliff, a fine section of the Upper Greensand and Gault is exhibited, beneath St. Catherine's Down, at Gore Cliff, both deposits attaining to their full thickness, viz., about 100 feet each. Further eastward, below the village of Niton, a gap occurs, through which, at some remote date, the road to and from the Undercliff has been constructed. On rounding a jagged shoulder of overhanging cliff between Niton Undercliff and St. Lawrence, we arrive at Cripple Path, and " on reaching its foot we wonder how it is possible for the track which we see striking away across the greensward to make its way up the seeming vertical precipice ; but, like the evils of life, they only appear insurmountable at a distance ; a closer examination shows hidden shelves and cunningly formed stairs, and other undreamt of facilities, by which the ascent is rendered wonderfully easy."* Near St. Lawrence Church another gap occurs in the cliff — analagous to that at Niton Undercliff — through which a road has been constructed leading to * Venable's Guide. 

 P282  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000282.xml 
 Œije $ctrjport -fHuscum. jl/^fsrv// HE history, rise, and progress of the Newport n i Pta Museum has been kindly supplied to me by V***=^yf' John Wood, Esq., of The Cedars, Carisbrooke Jsffsf sr — one of the honorary curators, and patron vS^-*. and promoter in establishing the Museum on its present site. This Museum was founded in the year 1852, principally through the exertions of the late Dr. Wilkins, who also obtained the permission of the then members of the Isle of Wight Institution, and also the members of the Isle of Wight Philosophical Society, to remove from the premises of the former a collection of antiquities, coins, and objects of natural history, which had been accumulating from the date of their first establishment, in 1810. The Corporation of the Borough, on being applied to, granted the use of a room in the Guildhall, free of rent, for their depository; but in a short time the space allotted became so crowded that it was found necessary to remove the collection to some more spa cious premises, for which an annual rent would be paid, and which would afford greater accommodation. After some years, and on the establishment of the Newport "Young Men's Literary Society" in Quay Street, the trustees of the former museum made over the collection to the "Literary" society, where the museum is now located. At the same time the private collection of 

 P211  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000211.xml 
 bembridge marls. 153 former the green clays and stony bands yield Paludina lenta, Melania turritissima, M. muricata, Melanopsis carinata, and Cyrena obovata. The Oyster Bed already referred to appears at St. Helen's, near the old Church. The same series of strata are repeated near Foreland Point, having a thickness of about 9ft., with almost similar fossil contents. " Below Hempstead Cliff" is " the only place in the Island where these strata are displayed throughout their entire thickness. In that locality the whole of the beds which compose this subdivision, from the Bembridge Limestone forming Hempstead Ledge to ' Black Band ' which constitutes the base of the Hempstead series, may be examined in detail at low water, without a break, as they successively crop out on the shore, and their beautifully preserved fossils be collected."* There is an exposure at St. Helen's, close to the Old Tower, and above the Limestone already described. At this spot Professor Forbes mentions the finding of an Area and a Modiola " in the brown clay above the Oyster band." The following list of some of the characteristic fossils of the Bembridge series is taken from the work by Mr. Bristow : — Cytherea incrassata Achatina costellata Bulimus ellipticus Limnæa longiscata Helix, 8 species Melania, 3 sp. Melanopsis, 4 sp. Paludina, 3 sp. Planorbis, 6 sp. Cerithium, 2 sp. • Mem. Geol. Burr., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 82. 

 P25  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000025.xml 
 SANDOWN BAY. 11 that it is rare to meet with specimens in a perfect condition. But few examples of verterbræ in juxta position have been found, with the exception of the sacrum, which are anchylosed. Dr. Wilkins also records how he obtained large portions of the lower jaws, with teeth, of an adult, also a fragment of the jaw, with teeth, of a young Iguanodon, besides detached teeth. Dr. Mantell records a leg and thigh bone from Sandown Bay as being upwards of nine feet, and a thigh bone three feet four inches in length. The femur of an Iguanodon, four feet ten inches long, and fourteen inches in diameter near the middle, was found in Sandown Bay. The total extent of the coast occupied by the Wealden formation in Sandown Bay is a mile-and-a-half ; owing, however, to the absence of cliffs over a great part of the coast, where the Wealden strata occur, the beds there are rendered somewhat obscure. They may, however, be seen on the strand at low water, cropping out in succession, and consisting of alternations of ridges of sandstones, clays, and marls, similar to those described on the other side of the Island. The Pine Raft, so conspicuous at Brook Point, is rarely visible at Sandown Bay ; but is reported to have been visible by the Geological Survey during the summer of 1858 — a circumstance of much interest, proving it to be, not a mere local deposit, restricted to a limited area round Brook Point, but to have extended from west to east, over a distance of at least fifteen miles, in a direct line. During the many years I have visited the Bay, I have never had the opportunity of seeing it. It would be useless at this time to attempt to describe the position of beds contiguous to the town, as they 

 P295  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000295.xml 
 237 ECONOMICS. Salt is made in small quantities at the Salterns, near Newtown, by the evaporation of the sea water : first by exposing it in shallow pits to the combined influence of the sun and wind, and then boiling the strong lime until salt is formed (Geological Survey, 1862, p. 108). The so-called Agates which are picked up on the beach on the south side of the Island, especially near Sandown and Ventnor, are in reality Chalk Flints, which owe much of their origin to the silicified remains of sponges and other organised bodies. The rich brown tints which these stones display are derived from the presence of iron. These stones take a very good polish, and are made into 'pretty brooches and other ornaments, which find a ready sale in the Island under the name of " Isle of Wight Pebbles." Many of the so-called Isle of Wight Pebbles are, however, not the produce of the Island, but are imported into this country in a polished and artificially manufactured state, from Germany and elsewhere. Mr. Billings, Mill Street, is the resident lapidary at Ventnor.* (See Geological Survey, 1862, p. 108.) • This subject is treated of at page 117 of this work. 

 P71  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000071.xml 
 sands of blackgang chine. 47 part, a bed of ferruginous sandstone, five feet thick, making about twenty feet for the thickness of the entire group, which is more or less fossiliferous throughout. Over this ferruginous concretion, at Blackgang, a streamlet flows, forming a cascade. Cycadæ, Zamia (?), and Clathariœ Lyelli axe frequently found in this neighbourhood. Hopoloparia Longimanus (?) are sometimes found on the shore, as well as detached claws ; this fossil is of an inkey blackness and extremely hard, being very difficult to detach from the matrix. These remains are best developed where the sea washes over the ledge. Carbonised plants occur here, with twigs and stems of trees. This bed also yields the following fossils : — Pauopæa plicata ,, Neocomiensis Pholodomya Martini Cardium peregiinosum „ Voltzii Corbis corrugata Cyprina angulata „ rostrata Isocardia Neocomiensis Thetis minor Corbula striatula Mytilns lanceolatus Gervillia anceps ,, solenoides Lingula truncata Avicula pectinata Anomia (?) Terebratnla mnltiformis ,, Gibbsiana Lucina solidula Mactra (Carteroni) ? Area Cornueliana Nucula antiquata Trigonia alæformis ,, caudata ,, rudis Pinna Robinaldina Cytherea caperata Venus parva Tei-ebratula sulcata Natica Cornueliana ,, Gaultina Rostellaria Robinaldina Dentalium cylindricum Holaster complanatus Lonchopteris Mantelli Turritella Dupiniana Iguanodon remains 

 P197  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000197.xml 
 HEADON BEDS. 141 Corbula ~) Occasional Limnæa longiscata Fusus lab. > and Planorbis euomphalus Melanopsis ) washed in. Nucula similis (amongst the Oysters) Murex sexdendatus (amongst the Oysters) Cancellaria Balanus Tellina Nerita (aperta ?) Sanguinolaria ? Melania fasciata Cytherea Pleurotoma Voluta spinosa " The marine character of the Middle Headon beds is still more strongly marked at Whitecliff Bay, and they assume a much greater development there than at either of the before-mentioned localities."* Upper Headon Beds. " The Upper Headon Beds are in part ' The Upper Freshwater,' of Webster, the overlying Osborne and St. Helen's series having been included by him in that formation. They consist in their highest part of brackish-water bands, abounding in Potamomyæ, and a large variety of Cyrena obovata Great numbers of the Potamidee margaritaceus occur in these beds. The shells of the Freshwater limestones are the same as those of the Lower Headon beds Melania muricata abounds. At Headon Hill thick beds of limestone form conspicuous objects in the cliff, and are remarkable for the abundance and variety of their fossils. It is owing to the development of these lime- » Mem. Geol. Surv., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 61. 

 P34  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000034.xml 
 20 wealden formation, 24. Hard bed of white and yellow sandstone, soft, clayey and ferruginous in the upper part, forming a passage into the overlying bed. 25. Hard cyclas band, in dark grey shales. 26. Dark grey shales, harder and more marly in the lower 13 feet. 27. Hard sandy bed, with lignite on the top. 28. Grey sandy marls, with nodules of argillaceous limestone. 29. Pale grey sandy marls, with a band of hard sandstone concretions. 30. Hard and irregular band of sandstone. 31. Black shale. 32. Concretions of yellow sandy limestone, clay ironstone, laminated with bright yellow sand : cypris and plants. 33. Large Unio and Cyclas : Paludina elongata. 34. Nodules of pyrites and a few pebbles of clay ; carbonaceous in patches. 35. Yellow sand and soft bright yellow sandstone, mostly without fossils, evenly bedded with ripple marks and false laminations. 36. Shaly, passes westward into black shale. Forms the lower part of Shepherd's Chine. 37. Sandy limestone, covered with iron, with layer of Paludina elongata. 38. Soft black argillaceous shale. 39. Dark grey shaly clay, with bands of Cyclas media and Paludina elongata, Cypris fasciculata, C. Valdensis, C. (granulated sp.) Gyroginites, Elytra of insects (rare). This is the lower- most of the series of dark-coloured beds. 40. Red, purple, and green variegated marl, with patches of lignite. 41. Red sandstone, crossing Barnes' Chine. 42. Bands of hard sandstone, crossing Ship Chine. 43. Red concretionary sandstone, marly on the top, and with a band of brecciated conglo- merate 6 inches thick at the bottom ; much false lamination, quartz pebbles, wood, bone. 44. Thin bedded sandstone and sand, very irregu- lar, and weathering unequally ; red in the upper part in places. 

 P33  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000033.xml 
 DESCRIPTION OF THE STRATA. 19 Description of the Strata From Compton Bay to Brook Point. Abridged from the Geological Suruey. 1862. Vegetable soil. Drift gravel. Sand, hardening into sandstone at bottom. Large angular flint-gravel : iron, clay, and quartz pebbles. Cyclas band, in black cypris shales. Paludina band. Shales, with hard thin laminæ of sand. I 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Paper shales. Hard band, 2 inches. Dark grey paper shales. Hard band. 9 IO. II Paler grey shales, with bands of sand. Hard band, 1 inch. Greenish marly sand, with lignite and iron pyrites. Grey sandy clay, 1 foot ; laminæ of sand and clay, 6 inches. Pale yellow gritty sandstone, with nodules of iron pyrites. Hard blue clay, with an irony parting above and below. Sandstone (as above) with nodules of iron pyrites, very ferruginous. Carbonaceous matter towards the lower part. Iron parting. Grey shaly clay ; hard sandy Paludina band at 4 feet. White and yellow gritty sand, with pyrites, and carbonaceous streaks. Grey clayey sandy beds, ist. 6in. ; clay iron- stone, with Paludina, 7 inches. Dark grey shales. 12 J3 I4 15 16 i? 18. ig. 20. 21. 22. 23. 

 P32  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000032.xml 
 18 WEALDEN FORMATION, the fractured portions remain near each other ; the vertebræ are more or less displaced, yet they maintain relation to the positions they originally occupied ; the bones of the fore-legs have been torn from their sockets and this must have taken place before the specimen was imbedded in the mud and sand, for the glenoid cavities were filled with stone : these facts prove that the carcass of the original must have undergone muti lation before the bones were reduced to a skeleton ; and that the dislocated and broken parts were held together by the muscles and integuments ; in this state the trunk was borne down the stream, and at length sank into the mud of the delta, and formed a nucleus around which the stems and leaves of cycadeous plants and ferns were accumulated, and river shells became inter mingled in the general mass. " The phenomena here contemplated cannot, I con ceive, be satisfactorily explained upon any other supposition than that which implies a long transport, by the agency of streams and currents : the carcasses of the colossal reptiles must have been exposed to such an action for a considerable time, and the source of the mighty river which flowed through the Country of the Iguanodon, must, therefore, like that of the Mississippi have been far distant from the delta which in the course of innumerable ages accumulated at its mouth."* • From MantelTs " Wonders of Geology." 

 P224  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000224.xml 
 166 TERTIARY series. and rabbit have been found, together with teeth of other animals, and numerous land shells. This bed is also found resting upon and following the slope of the Down above it, having been cut through during the excavations made for building the north end of the Railway Station. On the western side of Milanese Villa, which stands at the west end of Mill Bay, the low sea-cliff is capped by a stratum of partially-rounded chalk debris, and small angular flints ; it is from 8 to 10 feet thick, is stratified, and is probably the result of the wasting energy of the rains. It re-appears at intervals on the tops of the low cliffs between Ventnor and Niton. Loams and red flint-gravels, which, from the similarity of their fossil contents and other points, are doubtless contemporaneous with the existing order of things, are found here ; they fill a fissure in the cliff above Old Park, and occur also between Puckaster and Rocken End. Another thick bed occurs above the Railway Tunnel, at Ventnor ; it is found extending to some distance, on the eastern side of the cutting, resting upon the Upper Greensand. A black peaty deposit sometimes occurs in these superficial beds of undoubted vegetable origin. A human thigh bone, found by myself, and the upper portion of a skull of a young elephant (E. primogemus) found by some workmen, fix the age of these deposits as that of the Human Period. The wasting action of the atmosphere, which attacks and crumbles into soil the rocks of the surface, has probably been their origin ; for from their elevated position (300 to 400 feet above sea level) it is difficult to consider them the work of rivers. 

 P141  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000141.xml 
 the chalk marl. 99 These beds also occur around the base of the Downs, and in the fields adjoining. The fossils of these zones are generally well preserved as sharp casts. The Turrelites here become rare, and disappear as we go higher. The before-named fossils occur in a disused chalk pit on the upper part of Ventnor Shute, to the right of the high road leading from Ventnor to Newport. Near this place the lower beds of Grey Chalk are exposed in a cutting on each side of the road, in which occurs Holaster complanatus, associated with an Ammonite having prominent ribs, which appears to be a variety of Ammonites Rhotomagensis, some of which are of large size. The Town Cemetery is on the Grey Chalk, but in the excavations few fossils are found beyond Ammonites varians, Pecten Beaverii, etc. A portion of the head and jaws of a large fish was dug up here some time back, having lancet-shaped teeth. The specimen was much crushed, and very friable, and unfortunately was not preserved. Two large pits occur near here, excavated for material for lime burning. They contain few fossils, abounding with iron pyrites of various shapes and forms. The Chalk Marl is exposed in situ in a pit near the upper part of Shanklin Cowleaze, and also on both sides of the lane leading up to it on the left of the road from Ventnor to Shanklin. The Chalk Marl at the pit contains Baculites, Hamites, Scaphites, and Ammonites. Below, in the lane where the strata have been cut through to form the road, Ammonites Mantelli, A. varians, and other marl fossils can be collected ; A. falcatus also occurs. There are also two or three small pits on the roadside around the valley of Luccombe, in one of which Turrelites undulatus and 

 P155  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000155.xml 
 WHITE CHALK. 107 are found upon examination to be shattered into frag ments. These fragments, or splinters, vary in size from three inches in diameter down to powder. The flints thus shivered, as if by a blow of incon ceivable force, retain their form and position in their bed. The chalk closely invests them on every side, and until removed nothing different from other flints can be perceived, excepting fine lines, indicating the fracture, as in broken glass ; but when removed they fall at once to pieces, the fragments being as sharp as possible, and quite irregular, being certainly not the effect of any peculiar crystallization or internal arrangements of the material, but solely attributable to external violence. This shattering is probably the result of the chalk upheaval, though to offer any definite cause to explain so curious a phenomenon is beyond the limits of this paper. The cliffs of Freshwater are crowded with sea birds — especially in the breeding season. They lay their eggs on the projecting ledges of the chalk strata, sitting tier above tier, and almost covering the face of the cliffs. Should a gun be fired, and the report disturb them, they form by their flight a thick cloud which almost darkens the air. Collecting these eggs was at one time a profitable occupation, and although one of an extremely dangerous nature, was followed by many persons. The manner in which the ledges were reached and the eggs taken was as follows : A pointed crowbar was inserted in the soil above ; a stout rope was secured to the bar, to which another rope was attached called a " guy," and which was carried in the hand of the person descending, for the purpose 

 P232  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000232.xml 
 RED BEACH. 174 The Bay below Lord Dysart's (Steephill Cove) is now choked up by a bank of rounded flint pebbles, called shingles ; but I was informed that twenty years ago it was covered with a beautiful sand like Sandown Bay. These shingles consist of rounded silicious fragments, of a great variety of colours, and about the size of beans Fifty years ago there were none east of Rockenend, but they have now covered the whole of the shore between that place and Bonchurch, and they extend from Rockenend to Freshwater. It would seem they are carried east by the tides, which are said to be more rapid here than formerly, owing probably -to the wearing away of many points of land and rocks that projected into the sea, and which defended the creeks along the shore."* It is said by the old fishermen that the barrier reef at Rockenend was swept away at high tide during the prevalence of a great gale (.possibly that of 1825) ; whether it was so or not, according to the testimony of Mr. Webster, the red shingle has undoubtedly escaped past Rockenend since the beginning of the present century. I am tempted to think that it is more likely derived from the masses of submerged Upper Chalk strata which, disappearing at the Needles, crops up in Swanage Bay, and in the island of Purbeck on the Dorsetshire coast, a distance of about 15 miles across the channel. The white chalk with flints much disturbed by upheaval, and the flints at both places being much shattered, they would easily be washed out of the submerged strata, the fractures causing the fragments to separate, after which they would be subjected to attrition. The tidal currents would carry « Webster to Englefield, 1810. 

 P255  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000255.xml 
 THE HUMAN PERIOD. 197 In the gardens of Steephill Castle, as well as in the grounds above, numerous pieces of bone, associated with oyster and limpet shells, have been discovered. The midden heaps seem to be scattered over a wide area. A few years ago some pieces of pottery were brought to light when cutting a new road through the Steephill estate above the Castle. They consisted of vases, one or two of which were scarcely damaged, and of a superior make ; others were coarser. In the upper part of the quarry, two or three feet beneath the surface, more of this pottery was found, with quantities of shells. A layer of angular flints also occurred, containing a few fragments of the Upper Greensand formation, upon which the layer rests ; and above this came a layer of dark coloured ashes, con taining rounded pebbles, "pot boilers," from the shore beneath, limpet, periwinkle, and other shells. Amongst these latter were a few oyster shells, resembling the "new ground oysters," at one time dredged off Ryde. At present few oysters are found in the Solent.' The same deposit contained broken pottery of coarse and fine workmanship; a few pieces of " Samian ware," iron nails, and bones, amongst which were those of the deer, sheep, ox, hog and horse. The late Mr. H. Westropp published the following description of the place and its contents: — "Among the many instances of an early stage of rude civilisation in the Undercliff are the " kitchen middens " which so frequently occur in different parts of it. Extensive traces of one of these, and a fire place in connection with it, have been very recently discovered by Mr. Hodder Westropp, assisted by Mr. Norman, on the upper part of the new road winding up the cliff, 

 P187  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000187.xml 
 MIDDLE BAGSHOT SERIES. 133 sands containing large Cardita planicosta, Turritella im bricataria, Natica, Nummulites lævigatus. etc. "A hard bed of conglomerate, formed by rounded flint-pebbles in a ferruginous cement, constitutes a marked feature in the cliff, and a strongly defined division between this member of the Middle Bagshot series and the overlying Barton Clay. The pebbles are of various sizes, black for the most part, and some times as much as a foot in diameter. This bed is represented in Whitecliff Bay by a stratum six feet in thickness, with small pebbles disseminated through it, and crushed Turritella, etc."* I have found that the best way to collect the fossils from these more sandy beds of Whitecliff Bay, is to leave them on the clay, and pare off the surrounding matrix with a small pocket knife, leaving them on the beach to dry while collecting others. Each specimen should then be carefully rolled up in paper, and placed securely in a wooden box, great care being necessary as most of these fossils are extremely friable, and many of them badly preserved. Some of the Turritella imbricataria and Cardita planicosta are large, and the shells of the latter are very thick. The beds do not seem to be so well developed in Alum Bay as in Whitecliff Bay, being much thinner ; neither do they offer much attraction to collectors, for when I examined them, some years ago, I only succeeded in obtaining a few specimens of Cardita planicosta. Since that time, however, Mr. Joseph Bastianna, an enthusiastic col lector, especially of the Atherfield fossils, has sent me some good fossils from the Bracklesham series of Alum Bay. * Mem. Geol. Surv., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 41-5. 

 P137  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000137.xml 
 the chalk marl. 97 of the Undercliff. These can be measured up to eighteen feet from the basement bed. A little distance beyond Mill Bay, Ventnor, on the shore west of Undercliff House, another good section of the lower beds of the Chalk Marl occurs, where the same fossils can be collected as at the former place. At St. Lawrence Shute, above the old Church, the Chalk Marl (up to about fifty feet from the basement bed) occurs in situ, the uppermost beds here having been eroded. The next beds in ascending order are about four feet from the Ammonites falcatus zone, and are two feet thick. They consist of a hard compact layer of marl, full of Ammonites varians, resting on a bed of softer material, which is also fossiliferous (A. Mantelli, Nautili, etc.) Above these a band of soft cream-coloured Marl, about four feet thick, occurs, with a hard compact band resting on its upper part. The fossils are changed into calcite. Turrelites undulatus, a well-marked large example of Ammonites varians, occur throughout these beds ; this latter form, with its varieties, being most characteristic of the Chalk Marl. The succeeding 25 feet of the Chalk Marl is sparsely fossiliferous, consisting, as it does, of hard limestone, intercalated with a soft argillaceous material. Above this series is a bed containing dark masses of what appears to be spongoid bodies ; we find also an Ammonite which apparently occurs neither above or below in the deposits, and which is probably Ammonites rugosa. The next in ascending order is a bed of soft argil laceous material about twelve feet thick ; resting on this is a band of compact marl, varying in places from six to nine inches in thickness. G 

 P120  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000120.xml 
 84 THE UPPER GREENSAND. Whitwell, which some have designated as a fault. The gap has been caused by the strata composing the mass of the cliff parting at one of the fissures, and by a depression at that spot ; this is at once visible, as the top part of the cliff can be seen, w*ith the fossiliferous marl resting on it, a short distance up, on both sides of the shute. The strata conform to each other some thirty or forty feet below their proper position, and a considerable distance below the line of cliff. The road is stated to have been made by one of the Worsley family cutting through the rocky barrier, it having been a mere pass. The road has been lowered at various periods in consequence of accidents, — some fatal, as the neighbouring churchyard testifies. The view of Steephill Castle from the gate of the little churchyard is one to be admired : with the spires of the two Churches at Ventnor rising above the foliage which surrounds the Castle. Between here and Ventnor the cliffs are much obscured in places by the dense foliage which slopes upward from the road towards them. The trees, shrubs, and vegetation being rooted into the talus which has accumulated at the foot of the cliff, have prevented the disintegration of the soft sandstone beds below, by covering and excluding them from the wear and tear of the elements, so that they remain intact, and are moss grown and trellised with ivy in many places. From Steephill to Ventnor the subsidence of the strata, which have been detached from the parent cliff in larger masses than can be observed elsewhere, is not so abrupt — if we except Eastend ; along the line of disturbance, some having descended in an almost 

 P111  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000111.xml 
 THIRD DIVISION. 77 bed (by which Dr. Mantell proposed to name the whole of the deposits) ; which is after all but a very subordinate member of the group, consisting merely of a bed of hard laminated sandstone, from 8in. to gin. thick ; and a layer of Rag gin. thick, succeeded by an upper bed of the same lithological character, the whole averaging about two feet in thickness. This bed was locally called " Firestone " by the old inhabitants of the Undercliff, and used as a substitute for bricks for fire* places and the bottoms of ovens. The following fossils are found in this division : — Ammonites rostratus ,, splendens (?) Nautilus radiatus Hopoloparia Saxbyi Vermicularia Pecten sp. Ammonites rostratus ,, psendo-elegans Pecten orbicularis „ varians Trigonia sp. Cardiaster (?) „ elongatus Cucullæa Gyrodus Clathraria Lyelli Bulbs and stems of large spongoid bodies Siphonia Websteri Pecten orbicularis Panopæa sp. Ammonites rostratus inflatus sp. Panopæa plicata Serpula antiquata Siphonia Websteri Exogyra Third Division (Chert Beds). This division consists of from twenty to twenty-four beds of chert and laminated siliceous sandstone alter nating with each other and very unevenly bedded throughout, some of the beds varying in thickness from a few inches to two feet, the seams of the sand stone being interstratified with large concretions of Rag, in the Same line of bedding. The layers of the sandstone vary much in thickness. 

 P166  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000166.xml 
  

 P292  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000292.xml 
 Economics. j)#""|Ts"\*// HE locality of Alum Bay has long been n-5- r£ celebrated for the pure white Glass-house •jf Ax/x Sand which is obtained there from the P?v'\ Headon Sands. Some of it is of a very \&-> fine quality, and is shipped from Yarmouth principally to London and Bristol, at the rate of from 3,000 to 4,000 tons per year. Some of the upper beds of the Lower Greensand have also been worked for glass-house purposes near Rocken End ; but ow-ing to the difficulty of shipping it, this has been discontinued (see p. 48).* The Clay Ironstone which is found in considerable quantities lying loose on the shore at the foot of the cliffs between Yarmouth and Hempsted Ledge, is col lected on the beach and sent to Swansea, where it is smelted into iron. In the year 1858, no less than 1,803 tons were sold, the value of which was /"631 (Geological Survey, p. 106). There is also a seam of ironstone at the base of the cliffs beneath East End, at Bonchurch, samples of which were submitted some years ago to Dr. Percy, of the School of Mines, who ? * See Memoirs of the Geological Survey of Great Britain— Mineral Statistics of Great Britain and Ireland for the year 1859, by Robert Hunt, F.K.S., p. 59. 

 P210  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000210.xml 
 152 TERTIARY SERIES. Road leading from Ryde to Wootton Bridge, excava tions have been carried on to such an extent that the ground is literally honeycombed. These excavations vary in depth from 10 to 20 feet, and appear to have been worked without any particular method. They are known as the " Binstead Pits," and the stone quarried from them as the " Binstead Limestone." There is no doubt that the pits have been worked for centuries, and the stone widely exported. " The Binstead Limestone was formerly highly esteemed as a building stone, and has been used in the construction of several churches in Sussex, the interior of Winchester Cathedral, Lewes Priory, also Yarmouth Castle and Quarr Abbey (I.W.), an old Saxon ruin at Southampton, noticed by Webster, etc."* I have also seen an inkstand made from this stone ; it was dug up from beneath the ruins of Quarr Abbey, and was doubtless the work of one of the old monks. These quarries yield the usual numerous fossils, and are especially noted as containing the teeth of mammalia, Palœotherium, Chæropotamis, Dichobunc, and Anoplotherium, claws of Lobster (probably freshwater), Cray fish, etc. Inland the Bembridge Limestone has been observed at Dodpits, Stony Cross, Shalcombe Down, near Churchill, lane near Brading Church, south of lower Nunwell, etc. Bembridge Marls. These marls are exposed at Thorness Point and in Gurnet Bay ; at the latter place the characteristic fossils are Cyrena, Ostrea and Cerithium mutabile ; at the * Mem. Geol. Suit., Bristow, Islt of Wight, 1862, p. 78. 

 P296  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000296.xml 
 INDEX. page Cripple Path . . 83 Climate of Tertiary period (Prof. Geikie) . 157 Compton Bay . . 4 Coal, White Cliff Bay, Lignite 131 Coloured Sands . . 134 Criocerus group (lower) . 40 Criocerus group (upper) . 42 Country of the Iguanodon, its land and climate . 14 Chale Bay . . 66 Culver Cliffs . . .121 Cook's Castle . . 81 Chloride Marl . . 78 Choanites and Ventriculites 119 Crystal Palace dinner in the model of the Iguanodon . 10 Clays with embedded flints 117 Clark, Sir James, on the Undercliff . . . 190 Codrington, Mr., on gravel at Foreland .160 Cliff Fissures . . 81 Destruction of Chalk Cliffs in Denudation and Landslips . 177 Dodpits . . . 149 Economics . . . 234 Foraminifera in Chalk . 112 Fluvio-Marine series . . 137 Fitton, Dr., on the fossils of Atherfield . . 49 Ferruginous Sands of Black- gang Chine . . .46 Foreland Point ■ , 148 page 219 Addendum Area of the Wealden (des- cription of) . . 1 Atherfield Point . . 8 Atherfield Clay . . 29 Appendix . . . 211 Ancient British dwellings, Galliburgh & Rowborough 209 Arched Rock, Freshwater . 109 Alexandrian Pillar . 82 Arreton Down . .111 Brook Church . . 56 Binstead Quarries . 152 Blackgang Chine . . 63 Bembridge Marls . -152 Bagshot Sands, lower . 129 ,, middle . 130 ,, upper . 136 Bembridge series, Upper Eocene . . . 147 Brook Point (The Pine Raft) 2 Bean Rock . . .170 Blackgang Chine . . 63 Barrois, M., on the Chalk Formation . .116 Bonchurch Cove . . 53 Barton Clay . . . 135 Crackers Rock . . 30 Caves at Freshwater . 109 Chalk Marl . . 95 Chalk Formation . . 92 Cliffend Sands, Atherfield 45 Chalk Pits on Central Ridge in Cliffs at Freshwater , .107 

 P168  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000168.xml 
 118 chalk Formation. In the clays found in the fissures the flints have been splintered in the same manner. The neighbour hood of Ventnor is peculiarly rich in deposits of Flints, more particularly along that part of the shore w-hich extends from the Gas House east of Ventnor, and beyond Bonchurch as far as Luccombe and Shanklin. Between the latter place and Ventnor a sea-cliff runs, consisting of strata in situ. Some portions of it are about 200ft. high (those from Shanklin), and are composed of the Lower Greensand until Bonchurch is reached, westward of which they consist of unstrati fied masses of the debris of the strata which has fallen from above, and in which chalk, flints, and portions of the different strata are confusedly intermixed. Its origin was a landslip which occurred during the formation of the Undercliff, to be described hereafter. Here a great portion of the debris consists of black flints embedded in either a tenacious red clay, or a white, or whitish-grey clay, the latter resembling the pipe-clay, or leaf-bed of the Lower Bagshot series of Alum Bay. These two clay beds, the result of the extensive denudation of the Chalk and Tertiary beds in past ages, form in places the entire face of the cliff ; but the sea, attacking the base, undermines it, and causes large masses of the flints to become loosened, and to fall on the shore. A talus, or slope, is thus formed, which in its turn -is attacked by the sea, and the clay is washed away, leaving the flints behind. The flints thus washed out from the clay are scattered along the shore, and drift eastward, forming a line which extends beyond Shanklin to Sandown. Besides many species of sponges, the flints here, as elsewhere, contain Cidaris, Galeritcs, Terebratula, and many forms 

 P148  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000148.xml 
  

 P288  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000288.xml 
 230 ADDENDUM. Several cases of land and sea birds ; two of the cases presented by the Rev. Lucas. On the wall opposite are several diagrams by Professor Morris : — 1. Geological section of the earth's crust, with sections of mining operations, and interior of a coal mine. 2. A view of nature in ascending regions. 3- Geological chart, showing the places and names of the strata in different parts of England. 4- Map of the different parts of the world which have been and are subject to earthquakes and volcanic eruptions. 5- Drawings of the extinct gigantic animals of the later (Tertiary period). Drawn and presented by the Messrs. Ryan, the frames being added by the Committee. In concluding this brief description of the contents of what may be termed the basis of a Museum, I would observe that I have been mainly assisted in its forma tion by the contributions of many of the resident gentry 

 P238  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000238.xml 
 180 DENUDATION AND LANDSLIPS. some miles, and has a curious traditional legend attached to it, which runs as follows : — During the early days of Christianity, probably in Saxon times, the then inhabitants of the village became converted from Paganism by some of the missionary priests. After a time, having no place of worship but the open air, the Elders of the village called a meeting of the inhabitants, at which it was resolved to build a Church, the spot chosen being at the foot of a lofty hill. They began at once to busy themselves with the erection of the Church ; worked hard all day, and marked out and laid the foundation, until darkness intervened, and put a stop to their labours, when they went home and rested from their toil. In the morning they went again to their labour, but lo ! the huge stones were borne away by an invisible hand, to the summit of the hill, at whose base they were yesterday. When the people saw this wonderful thing they were much astonished, and cried with one accord, " Let us build unto the Creator a temple on the summit of the hill, and from this time shall the sanctuary and village be known unto men, in remembrance of this great deed, as God's Hill." And the legend also says that the field from which the stones were removed be known as the " Devil's Acre." The escarpments on the north side of the southern range of Downs, and the valleys of the chalk hills forming the inland cliffs, present examples of extensive erosion. I may mention that under the Obelisk, on Appuldurcombe Down, a cliff, called Gat Cliff, is more or less prominent at the park entrance west of Godshill ; and the west side of St. Catherine's Down presents us with another cliff-like face, 

 P175  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000175.xml 
 7 Headon lower fresTiwaier. 8 Heddon upper marine. 3 Headon upper freshwaitr. 10 Oshorne (or Sf Helens) series. II Bembridge limestone. 12 Bembridge marine band. 13 Bembridge marls . TERTIARY. A Upper Chalk. 1 Woolwich & Reading Series S London Clay orBognor beds 3 Lower Bagshot Series 's Sracklesham series. 5 Barton series. 6 Heddon Sands- 

 P234  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000234.xml 
 176 RED BEACH. resemble the well-known Egyptian pebbles ; others are of an opaque white jasper, veined with black dendritical or arborescent figures, or marked with zones of rich brown tints. Some have a concentric arrangement of bands of silex of various shades of colours, and resemble agates."* * Mantell's Geology of the Isle of Wight, 1854, p. 158. 

 P218  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000218.xml 
 160 TERTIARY SERIES Mr. Thomas Codrington, in writing to a gentleman on this subject a few years ago, and whose letter was then placed at my disposal, writes : — "The Foreland Gravel is mentioned in Forbes' Memoir and the Memoirs of the Geological Survey as being ' a deposit extending from the Chalk to Foreland Point.' But there are two deposits of very different character. The true Foreland Gravel on the sea level at Foreland Point ends rather abruptly about half-a mile to the S.W. It contains a very large portion of beach shingle, distinctly stratified in layers of assorted sizes, with a dip towards Foreland Point. There are bands of clear sharp sand, a layer of rounded pebbles as big as oranges being immediately overlaid by clean sand. There are pebble bands in which pebbles are stained with iron, ending sharply above, and covered with white pebbles ; the upper part is more clayey, may have been derived from the cap of overlying drift. The lower part of the gravel is entirely free from clay. The structure and material of the shingle bank stretch ing across the mouth of Brading Harbour, as laid open in the gravel pits near the ferry, are precisely similar to the Foreland Gravel ; they are, I believe, deposits of shingle and blown sand formed at the mouth of the river (?) Overlying the gravel is a drift of a matrix of sandy clay, with unrolled flints and tertiary pebbles, and it is this which extends over the edges of the Tertiary beds nearly to the chalk of Bembridge Down, and from this the flint implement came. Towards Bembridge Down, where the drift reaches as high as 1 20 feet above the sea level, it consists of a bed of flints and Tertiary pebbles, covered up by five or six feet of sandy clay. A drift of similar character commonly 

 P152  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000152.xml 
 106 CHALK FORMATION. Passing along towards Freshwater, Sir Henry Englefield, writing in 1811 of the cliffs, thus speaks of them :— ' West of where the [old] lighthouse stood, the cape shoots out almost to a point, and to those whose nerves are proof against the horrors of the position, the views into the bays beneath, and of the cliffs, is extremely sublime. In hard blowing weather the fury of the wind on this promontory is scarcely credible. Very large flints and fragments of chalk are blown from the cliffs, so as to endanger the windows of the lighthouse, and for many days in succession it is scarcely possible to open the door."* "The flints in the chalk are, for the most part, irregular in shape, but sometimes they constitute tabular layers coincident with the stratification, or else filling cracks and joints The former are derived from silicious matter, frequently, and perhaps m most instances, deposited contemporaneously with the calcareous sediment of which the chalk is com- posed, around sponges and other organised bodies. The latter, on the contrary, are of more recent origin, having been carried by percolating water holding silica in solution, into cracks and joints formed in the chalk during or after its solidification. The tabular bands of flint filling cracks and joints are therefore, as might be expected on the last supposition, unfossiliferous, in stead of abounding in fossils, as is the case with the other system of flints. " + The nodules of flint in this district, although they retain their form if carefully extracted from the chalk, * Englefield, " Picturesque Account of the Isle of Wight," 1S16, p. 82. t Mem. Geological Survey, Bristow, Isle of Wight, lBt>2. p. 31. 

 P216  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000216.xml 
 158 TERTIARY SERIES. " In entering upon the Tertiary series of formations we find ourselves upon the threshold of the modern type of life. The ages of lycopods, ferns, cycads, and yew-like conifera have passed away, and that of the dicotyledonous angiosperms — the hard-wood trees and evergreens of to-day — now succeed them ; but not by any sudden extinction and re-creation ; for, as we have seen, some of these trees had already begun to make their appearance even in cretaceous times. The hippurites, inocerami, ammonites, belemnites, baculites, turrelites, scaphites, and other mollusses, which had played so large a part in the molluscan life of the later secondary periods, now cease. The great reptiles, too, which in such wonderful variety of type were the dominant animals of the earth's surface, alike on land and sea, ever since the commencement of the Lias, now wane before the increase of the Mammalia, which advance in augmenting diversity of type, until they reach a maximum in variety of form and in bulk just before the cold epoch referred to. When the refrigeration passed away and the climate became milder, the extraordinary development of mammalian life that pre ceeded it is found to have disappeared also, being only feebly represented in the living fauna, at the head of which man has taken his place." Superficial Accumulations of Later Tertiary Date. " All the superficial deposits in the Isle of Wight are of later Tertiary date. They may be divided into two kinds : first, the older gravel covering the high 

 P42  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000042.xml 
 Lower Chalk. Upper Greensand Gault. Lower Greensand Various Sands & Clap. Upper Clap Ir San Jr och. Ferruginous Bands of Slackqanq Chine Smisit Walpen Unierclifj. F-ohated ClaySSand. Cliff End Sands. Second Gryphæa. Walpen bladder Sands Upper Crioceras Group Walpen Claif & Sands Loner Crioceras. Scaphites. Lower Grypfiaza The Crackers. fPkerfieUClay. Ternajlfulteti. Wealden Clay. SECTION OF THE LOWER GREENSAND, ATHEFtE/ElD. 

 P66  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000066.xml 
 42 THE LOWER GREENSAND. of the strata and its fossil contents. Red ferruginous nodules line the shore, and are continued into the interior of the Chines. Many of the fossils are con verted into pyritic masses, which give them a glittering and bronzed appearance. These beds are subdivided by Dr. Fitton into two parts, the upper consisting of a brown fossiliferous clay about 33 feet thick, and the lower of a dark greenish mud, sand, and clay, about 24 feet. The bed extends from the shore below Walpen Chine to Brown's Down. In the Lower zone are : — Gryphæa sinuata Cones, probably of the pine tribe, with stems and Panopæa elongata „ mandibula Carbonised vegetable im- pressions (probably ferns and grasses) twigs, also wood bored by teredo And in the Upper : — Panopæa mandibula ,, plicata Tellina inæqualis Venus vectensis (Parva) Scaphites gigas (Ancy-- locerus) Nucula ? Isocardia Neocomiensis (qu. ornata) Corbula striatula Lima semisulcata Gryphæa sinuata Pinna Robinaldina Ammonites Deshayesii (very large) Ammonites Martini Eighth Division. Upper Crioceras Group (46 feet 2 inches). This group is seen for some distance along the shore, east of Walpen Chine, which is crossed by it, as are also Ladder and Whale Chines. It consists of sandy nodules, embedded in sand, and containing Crioceras, Bowerbanhii, Ammonites Martini, Gervillia sole- 

 P161  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000161.xml 
 " WHITE CHALK. 113 some of the hard limestones of the Southern Basin are mainly composed of their aggregated shells. Some of the more frequent genera are Globigerina, Orbitolina, Porosphæra, Nodosaria, Texhdaria, and Rosalia." * In " Science Gossip," some vears ago, a paper appeared, communicated by Mr. Angell, of Winchester, who makes the following remarks : — " Having made an excellent collection [of Foraminifera] from some chalk taken from the cavity of a flint, I wish to bring it before the notice of your readers. All things relating to the formation of the Chalk are now of special interest, in consequence of the identity of forms, recently dis covered in the deep Atlantic dredgings, with those of the fossil animalculæ of the Chalk deposits. In my collection the shells are beautifully perfect, in conse quence of their being enclosed in a flint cavity ; but the fact of their having been found in that position only proves that the flint enveloped the sponge, which was surrounded by myriads of like forms, and that the nucleus of the flint afterwards became silicated, together with the animalculæ, which having been preserved from pressure, the forms now present them selves as beautiful and perfect as at their death." A few words as to the collection of these minute fossils may not be out of place here. If we select a round flint we shall find in many cases its interior to be filled with a white powder. This powder must be tied up in a piece of linen and shaken about in water until the water that runs from it is perfectly clear. The bag should then be opened, and the contents dried without heat, and on a careful examination being made it will * Geikie, "Text Book of Geology," 1882, p. 804. H 

 P19  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000019.xml 
 DESCRIPTION OF THE STRATA. 5 strata, may be conveniently examined in succession, as they rise from the shore to form the cliffs." It may be observed that the whole of the Wealden strata of the Isle of Wight is extremely irregular, and that the thick beds of sandstone, which form conspicuous objects in the cliffs, occasionally thin out rapidly, as may be observed in the case of the bed of greenish sandstone seen. It may also be stated that, with the exception of a few thin be4s in the Upper part, such as the limestones, or Sussex marble and septaria, a band of dark clay, containing Potamides, rests on the marine deposits. Few zones can be traced containing organic remains ; they seem to be scattered through the deposits. Most of the fossils, however, are contained in the Upper beds. The shores and cliffs of the Wealden are rather monotonous, on account of the uniformity and repeti tion of the different strata, with little or ho variety of their fossil contents. Numerous indentations occur at the base of the cliffs, caused by the inroads of the sea, some of which contain ripple-marked slabs of limestone, others with sun-cracks on their surface, and, it is stated, footprints of animals.* Although not very attractive in appearance, the Wealden strata form certainly one of the most important series of deposits of the Cretaceous system, on account of the number and great size of the remains of the terres trial reptiles found in them. At Compton Bay and Atherfield Point, numerous slabs of the Freshwater limestone lie in heaps, inter mixed with the disrupted blocks of the Perna beds. * Not confirmed. 

 P149  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000149.xml 
 WHITE CHALK. 103 : From these figures it will be seen that the Southern Downs are much higher than those of the central ridge and as the strata here are almost horizontal, wdiilst in the ridge they are more or less vertical, we can con sider the Southern Downs as the remnants of the central portion of the great anticlinal, or saddle, into which the Chalk has here been thrown. From the rounded and turf covered summit of these Downs a most imposing panorama is unfolded ; indeed, no other portion of the Island will better repay exami nation, both on account of its beauty and general interest. The view from Ashey sea-mark on that part of the Chalk Hills between Messly and Brading Down is particularly fine. This sea-mark is in form of a triangular pyramid, with its apex rough and broken. It was erected in 1735 to facilitate the navigation of the Solent between St. Helen's and Spithead. The view has been thus described by the Rev. Legh Richmond : — " Southward the view is terminated by a long range of hills (Shanklin, Wroxall, and Appuldurcombe), at about six miles distant. They meet to the westward another chain of hills, of which the one whereon I sit forms a link, and the whole together nearly encompass a rich and fruitful valley, filled with corn-fields and pastures. Through this vale winds a small stream for miles ; here and there lesser eminences arise in the valley, some covered with wood, others with corn or grass, and a few with heath or fern. One of these hills is distinguished by a church (New Church) at the top, presenting a striking feature in the landscape. Villages, churches, country-seats, farm-houses, and cottages are scattered over part of the southern valley. 

 P212  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000212.xml 
 154 TERTIARY SERIES. Reptilia. Trionyx incrassatus, Owen Mammalia. Anoplotherium commune, Cav. ,, secundarium, Cuv. Chæropotamus Cuvieri, Owen Dichobune cerviuum, Owen Palæotherium crassum, Cuv. magnum, Cuv. medium, Cuv. „ minus, Cuv. Hempstead Series. The chief locality for the study of these beds is thus described by Professor Forbes : — " At the distance of a mile-and-a-half from Yarmouth rises a considerable hill, oblong in shape, sloping towards the south, truncated, and exhibiting a series of terraces caused by numerous landslips towards the north. It is known as Hempstead Cliff. The highest portion of its crest is 210 feet above the sea. It is composed of marls and clays The marls and clays forming its base belong to the Bembridge series, and are identical with those seen forming the hill above the limestone at Whitecliff."* * Mem. Geol. SurT,, Forbes, Isle of Wight, 1866, p. 37. 

 P46  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000046.xml 
  

 P31  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000031.xml 
 ITS LAND AND CLIMATE. 17 that the animals and terrestrial plants of the Wealden lived and died near the area where their relics are entombed ; for, with the exception of the shells and crustaceans, and certain marsh and aquatic plants, all the fossil remains bear unequivocal marks of having been transported from a great distance. But though three-fourths of the bones discovered have evidently been broken and rolled before their deposition, the teeth detached from their sockets, the vertebræ, and the bones of the extremities, with but very few excep tions, disjointed and scattered here and there, the stems and branches of the trees torn to pieces and stripped of their foliage — there is no intermixture of sea-shells, nor of beach or shingle : these remains have been subjected to abrasion from river currents, but not to attrition from the waves of the ocean. " The gigantic limbs of the large saurians could not have been dissevered from their sockets without great violence, except by the decomposition of their tendons from long maceration in water ; and if the latter were alone the cause of the dislocation of the bones, we should not find them broken and waterworn, but lying more or less in juxtaposition, as is the case in the skeletons of the marine reptiles of the liassic deposits. But the condition in which the fossil relics of the Wealden occur, proves that they were floated down the streams and rivers, with rafts of trees and other spoils of the land, till, arrested in their course, they sank down and became buried in the fluviatile sediments then in progress. " The state of the first discovered specimen of the Hylaosaurus is in this point of view highly instructive : many of the bones are crushed and splintered, yet B 

 P113  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000113.xml 
 FOURTH DIVISION. 79 An irregular layer of misshapen phosphatic nodules is imbedded between the last-named layer and the Chloritic Marl above. These nodules are derived ; many of them have the remains of sponges and shells adhering to them, and some of them have the appear ance of having been pierced by Lithodomi. Interstrati fied with them are various species of Sponges, Polyzoa, etc., with Shark and reptilian remains. Imbedded on these nodules is a seam of green sandy materials marked by meandering lines, and patches of marl upon the upper part, which is unfossiliferous in the neigh bourhood of Ventnor, particularly in the lower part, in contact with the nodules. This seam is of a dark green colour, and contains Saurian remains, with Pecten asper, P. orbicularis, and Pecten quinquecostatus. Upwards from the dark green sandy beds the deposits gradually merge into that of a light grey colour with dark grains. In some localities this bed is permeated by iron, but its composition partakes largely of marl. This is the first indication of a change from chert Rag and sandstone to the Chalk into which it gradually merges. It is full of fossils and fragments of fossils, and sponge-like bodies, mostly phosphatic, and Ammonites. It weathers easily, when numerous fossils are exposed in relief on the surface of the fallen blocks which strew the shore of the Undercliff. From the waterworn appearance of most of the organic remains they seem to have been derived from some older stratum, and to have been deposited under the influence of strong currents.* Curiously enough, I came upon two distinct specimens of Ammonites • These deposits are again referred to further on. 

 P86  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000086.xml 
 62 THE LOWER GREENSAND. who gives the following results. Three different quantities brought from the Spring exhibited the annexed specific gravities : — ist ... 1008-3 2nd ... 1007*2 3rd ... 1006.9 3)3022-4 1007*4 Mean specific gravity. The chemical constitution is as follows : — Carbonic acid gas ?0 of a cubic inch. Grains. Sulphate of iron 41 "4 ,, alumina 3i"6 ,, lime io-i ,, magnesia 3'6 ,, soda ... 16-0 Muriate of soda ... 4-o Silica 07 107-4 The Sand Rock Spring is now passed unnoticed. " Not one traveller out of a hundred cares to enquire about it, or marks the little grotto which points out its source, perched on the side of the cliff, midway between the upper and lower road to Blackgang. Nevertheless, we owe to it the establishment of a good Hotel, and the formation of an excellent road, and are bound to view the Spring with grateful regard, even if we decline to disorder our digestion by partaking of its nauseous streams."* * Venable's Guide. 

 P91  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000091.xml 
 65 BLACKGANG CHINE. part of this rude hollow, whose flanks are in a state of continual decay. They are mostly composed of very dark blue clay, through which, at intervals, run horizontal strata of bright yellow sandstone, about twelve or fifteen feet thick, which naturally divide into square blocks, and have exactly the appearance of vast courses of masonry, built at different heights, to sustain the mouldering hill. " What has been hitherto described may be called the upper part of the Chine, for on descending to the sea shore we find that the stratum of ironstone already mentioned forms a cornice, from whose edge the rill falls perpendicularly seventy-four feet. As the sub stratum is of a softer material than the ironstone, being a blue-black indurated clay, the action of the fall has worn it into a hollow, shining with a dusky polish, from damp, and stained with the deep green of aquatic lichens, or the ferruginous tint of Chalybeate exudations. The silver thread of water which falls through the air in front of this singular cove is, when the wind blows fresh, twisted into most fantastic and waving curves, and not seldom caught by the eddy, and carried up unbroken to a height greater than that from which it fell, and at last is dissipated in mist- When a S.W. wind creates a heavy swell on the shore the echo of the sound of the waves in this gloomy recess is truly astonishing, and has exactly the effect of a deep subterraneous roar issuing from the bottom of the cave. When sudden heavy rains, or the melting of snows, increase the quantity of water in the fall the scenery of this spot must be more striking than most in England."* * Sir Henry Englefield, 1810-11. E 

 P43  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000043.xml 
 Œfje ILotoer ffiransanti. " There is a pleasure in the pathless wood ; There is a rapture on the lonely shore ; There is society where none intrudes — By the deep sea : and music in its roar." Atherfield — Perna Beds. HE two beds described below represent the first of a long and protracted change from a fresh water deposit — such as is described in the close of the last chapter — to a brackish, and ultimately ending in marine, and fluviatile deposit. Consequently, they are the base ment beds of over 2,000 feet of sedimentary strata — accumulated upon them. The organic remains — many of which bear the appearance of extensive abrasion, and seem to have been transported from long distances, whilst others appear to be indiginous to the formation — are stated to have been an ancient shell bed — a modern equivalent of which, dredgers tell us, is now accumu lating in the North Sea. The Lower Greensand (so called) is composed of dark red compact sandstone in its lowest division, succeeded by buff-coloured clays, red sands, iron sands, with seams of clay, and dark indurated coarse sands, at Cliff-end ; these again are succeeded by yellow and parti-coloured sands at Blackgang — between which 

 P241  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000241.xml 
 THE UNDERCLIFF". 183 the loosened clay below it, which, mixed with the fragments of rock detached from the great mass in its fall, and full of interstices formed by the different hard ness of its own several strata, was more rapidly washed away than when in its own bed. A second subsidence now took place ; while from above another mass gave way, and by its weight urged the first fallen rock still further towards the sea, whose waves, carrying rapidly away all those parts easily soluble, united with the other causes of destruction to bring down fresh ruins from the cliff above. In this manner it is evident that the Undercliff was formed, most rapidly at first, but gradually slower as the causes of destruction tended to counteract their own effects ; for, after every subsidence, the mass of fallen clay and rock formed itself into a more gentle slope, and which, extending higher up against the face of the clay cliff, tended to keep it from mouldering, while the declivity of the slope itself rendered the material already fallen less apt to slide. The action of the sea which washed away the clay from among the masses of rock at the bottom, caused those masses to come into closer contact, and by degrees forced them into a high and strong bulwark, while those rocks which had rolled further out, became long reefs, extending far into the water, and breaking in a great measure the force of the billows before they reached the shore. Vegetation now had time to cover the face of she ruins an d secured the surface of the slope from the effects of rain and frost ; while the springs gradually formed regular courses through the little winding valleys among the heaps of ruin. Thus was the Undercliff gradually brought to the state in which we now see it." 

 P262  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000262.xml 
 THE HUMAN PERIOD. 204 narrow standing stones so frequently found in Denmark, and there termed " Banta stene," or memorial stones. Many similar also occur at Carnac, in Brittany. Lockhart, an archæologist, makes the following statement, in his " Guide to the Isle of Wight," p. 35: "The 'Longstone' on Mottistone Common is a very large and rough quadrangular mass of stone, bearing upon it no marks of the chisel. Though somewhat rudely formed, it consists of stratified iron sandstone from the Lower Greensand formation, the prevailing stone in that neighbourhood, abundance of which may be had from Compton Bay Cliff. The height of this upright stone is 13 feet, and it is b\ feet wide on its broadest side, and 20 feet in circumference. Its depth is believed to be considerable, and its weight a little over 30 tons. Four feet distant is a recumbent stone 9 feet 3 inches in length, its width at the widest part 4 feet, and its height at the thickest end i\ feet. There is a third stone of a similar kind about 300 yards distance from the Longstone, to the east on the way side. This stone is 4ft. 3m. wide, and 2ft. 2in. thick. Another stone lies near the gate from the Calbourne and Mottistone road on the pathway to the Longstone, from which it is distant 570 yards. Most probably these stones once formed an ancient British cromlech." In the Journal of the British Archæological Associa tion for 1882, Captain J. Thorp describes an ancient British barrow in the Island, and as it is of great interest and importance, I give the extract in full. In the journal may be seen a plate, showing a section of the mound, the urn found in it and a picture of the skeleton, and the skull with the hole referred to. Captain Thorp says : 

 P15  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000015.xml 
 GEOLOGICAL GUIDE TO THE ISLE OF WIGHT. "Lives of great men all remind ns We can make our lives sublime, And departing, leave behind ns Footprints on the sands of time." — Longfellow. WcdXben formation. HE major portions of these deposits are situated on the southern sides of the Island, where they have been elevated by the anticlinal axis, being hidden beneath the superin- cumbent strata from a little beyond Ather- field Point, by the synclinal, when they again come to the surface in Sandown Bay — a distance of fifteen miles. The entire area of the Wealden, according to the Geological Survey,* began in 1856, and published in 1862, does not exceed five square miles. There are no good sections inland. On the coast for six miles, from Compton Bay to Atherfield, they are well exhibited in the cliffs, and there is a tolerably fair • By Prof. E. Forbes and Henry W. Bristowe, Esq., P.G.8. 

 P247  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000247.xml 
 189 GORE CLIFF. Several minor slips have taken place during the last 30 or 40 years. Beneath Gore Cliff, hetween Niton and Blackgang, is an enormous mass of rock, as large as a good sized cottage. It once formed part of a large pinnacle which had become loosened from the cliff and overhung in a manner extremely threaten ing to the safety of the public. The authorities decided upon its removal by means of gunpowder. In its fall it carried with it tons of adjacent rock and debris, entirely blocking and destroying the roadway made round the landslip of 1799. A new road has since been constructed, and the rock alone remains as evidence of the past destruction. On visiting the spot soon after the occurrence, I noticed an extensive rift in the Gault ; it measured about 100 yards in length. It had been formed apparently by one portion of the strata slipping over the other as it moved onwards towards the sea. The surfaces of each were polished, assuming that peculiar glassy and striated appearance called by the miners " slickensides." Similar conditions are sometimes to be seen in the chalk. Surfaces thus acted upon will preserve their polish for some length of time, and owe their condition to the friction caused by the moving rock mass. This constant fall of land and consequent encroach ment of the sea necessarily reduces year by year the circumference of the Island. From personal observa tion I am enabled to state that between Ventnor and Bonchurch, where the strata, composed of Chalk and Greensand, possesses a certain amount of resisting power, the sea has encroached rather more than 12 yards during the last thirty years, The springs are 

 P115  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000115.xml 
 81 CLIFF FISSURES. under St. Catherine's Down about 155 feet. But it is doubtful as to whether the lower 55 feet does not belong to the Gault formation. The Upper Greensand, as well as the other members of the Cretaceous system, owe their present conforma tion to the rise of the Wealden formation. It was during the process of the upheaval that they became divided into vertical fissures throughout. This phe nomena is plainly exemplified all along the great wall of the Undercliff, from Luccombe on the east, to Blackgang 011 the west. These fissures also occur in the quarries, and wherever the strata is exposed. The cliffs which form the wall of the Undercliff are a remarkable instance of the power of the elements in wearing away the strata, as, facing the south, they are exposed to the full force of the South-west gales, which rage at times with great fury, driving before them volumes of fine drizzly rain, excavating the lower beds of soft micaceous sandstone, and honey combing the layers of blue limestone (local rag), thus causing vast masses — divided by the vertical fissures already spoken of — to topple over with a crash ; such "founders," as they are locally called, sometimes represent many tons of debris. The Upper Greensand is exposed in several places on the northern face of the Southern Downs, forming picturesque inland cliffs with a step-like projection beyond the superincumbent chalk, as on the west side of St. Catherine's Down, the northern side of Appuldurcombe Down, below Worsley's Obelisk — known as Gat Cliff, and the north and east sides of Shanklin Down, below Cook's Castle. This Castle was originally erected as an object in the view from F 

 P1  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000001.xml 
  

 P129  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000129.xml 
 CHLORITIC AND FOSSILIFEROUS MARL. 91 labourers proceed further into the side of the hill they are obliged to remove the upper crust of loam and limestone, which is from six to ten feet in thickness, before they can arrive at the fossil strata. The land is in the possession of Mr. William Henry Dawes, and we are informed that the parties have agreed to pay him per acre for liberty to turn over the surface and extract the fossils ! We have been in formed that this same stratum extends to Ventnor, and shows itself on Bembridge Down. We have not yet met with a practical chemist who can explain its component parts, but we suspect it will be found to contain a portion of phosphate of lime, and that it will form the principal ingredient in the manufacture of artificial manures. That it is of considerable value, no one can doubt who has witnessed the cost of pro curing it ; and we invite a controversy on its merits, as we cannot help feeling somewhat chagrined that this interesting discover}- should have been made by utter strangers, who are likely-, if there be a profit attending it, to reap the benefit thereof." 

 P124  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000124.xml 
  

 P131  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000131.xml 
 THE SOUTHERN DOWNS. 93 Calbourne, and Brook. Across these valleys com munication between the North and South division of the Island is carried on. The range runs with a smooth and undulating outline almost straight from Bembridge Down to St. George's Down, south-east of Newport, where it terminates suddenly with a bold face at the valley of the Medina. The other side of the valley the range takes a southerly direction, and losing its simple outline forms a double, or in some places a triple line. This occurs between Gatcomb and Brixton, at which latter place it again unites and resumes its direct westerly course ; broken by the Chine at Freshwater Gate, it ends in the bold head land which forms the magnificent cliffs of Scratchells and the Needles. The greatest height attained by any part of the (Northern) range is at Mottistone Down, where it rises to a height of 66 1 feet above the level of the sea. The Southern Downs. The Southern point of the Island, from Shanklin to Chale, is capped with another loftier but far shorter range of Chalk Downs, with nearly horizontal strata, rising with excessive steepness from the sea to a height of nearly 800 feet, and expanding into a broad pro montory, the southern termination of which is occupied by the picturesque terraces of the Undercliff. The Downs run inland in long narrow spurs, divided by deep valleys with precipitous sides, and their northern escarpments form bold cliffs, rising conspicuously from the Greensand valleys. These spurs extend from St. Catherine's Down on the West, to Dunnose on the East- 

 P274  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000274.xml 
 216 APPENDIX. much prolonged, and it is even possible that the sea originally found its entrance on this side. Seventy-five years ago Webster hired a small vessel at Yarmouth to enable him to make an examination of the chalk cliffs which form a portion of what may not be inaptly termed the rugged iron-bound coast of Dorsetshire, and of these cliffs he writes as follows : — " The island we were leaving behind assumed a very interesting appearance : the gradual rise of the northern side above the sea ; the coloured strata of Alum Bay ; those singular masses, The Needles, with the majestic chalk cliffs behind them of the most dazzling whiteness, and the precipitous face of the southern side of the Freshwater hills, composed altogether a picture of the most romantic character. As we approached the Dorsetshire side, I perceived the cliffs were of great height, forming the eastern end of the promontory called Handfast Point ; on the north side of which lay Studland Bay, and on the south Swanage Bay. In these cliffs, which present a vertical section of the Isle of Purbeck from north to south, were seen, while we were yet some miles distant, several large caverns, and towards the north end four or five detached masses of rock rising out of the sea. These were evidently isolated portions of the chalk, which, like The Needles, had resisted longer than the rest of the cliff. I made the vessel lay to that I might examine the stratification with a telescope, and I was surprised and delighted to find the south end composed of strata of chalk and flint quite vertical." A short time ago, whilst staying at Bournemouth, I made an excursion by steamer to Swanage. I was most particularly struck with the correspondence of the 

 P286  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000286.xml 
 228 ADDENDUM. 2. The Perna Beds.— The Clay Beds and the Crackers Rocks, with numerous fossils, together with those from the upper beds. The chief portion of the fossils are from Atherfield and Sandown. 3- The Gault. — A few of the representative specimens from the Gault, chiefly casts. 4- The Upper Greensand. — This case contains numerous fossils, among which are some very large Ammonites, chiefly from the neighbourhood of Ventnor. Many of the specimens were pre sented by the Rev. C. H. Maiden, son of the late rector of St. Lawrence. 5- The Chloritic Marl and Fossiliferous Marl. — The fossils from these beds are well represented by numerous specimens. 6. The Chalk Marl. — These specimens are from the Chalk Marl, and consist chiefly of the Cephalopoda, nautilus, ammonites, sponges, etc. Many of the fossils from the Chalk (upper and lower) were also presented by the Rev. C. H. Maiden. 

 P294  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000294.xml 
 236 ECONOMICS. Clay has been dug many years ago, and shallow trenches marking the sites of old workings are still visible (Geological Survey, p. 107). At Shide, near Newport, Pottery and tiles are manufactured from the red clays of the Plastic Clay formation. Bricks are made from the London Clay, which immediately overlies it. Bricks are also made from the clays of nearly all the Tertiary strata. At Ninham the loam overlying the flint gravel is con verted into bricks. At the brick pits north of Arreton Down the brick earth is derived from a red mottled loamy clay, containing a few small flints, and much resembling Plastic Clay, except in its paler colour. About twelve feet of the loam rests upon three feet of flint pebble-gravel, which forms the base of the high level gravel there. At Gunville, near Newport, the Barton Clay furnishes the brick earth, and at Ningwood the Bembridge Marls are converted into both brick and tiles. Alum was formerly manufactured in the Island from the clay of Alum Bay, and as early as 1579, at works in Parkhurst Forest (Geological Survey, 1862, p. 107). Bricks are manufactured along the Isle of Wight Railway at Wroxall, Shanklin, and Sandown, from loamy clay. The clay manufactured in the Isle of Wight during the year 1858 is estimated at 6,750,000 bricks and tiles, worth iOSa8r5Iei,InSr|r0,tt^el,GlrlogicalrTSurvey of Great Britain and Ireland, for 1858, by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. , part n., p. 38. "■"*", ior 

 P260  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000260.xml 
 THE HUMAN PERIOD. 202 equal size, and the edges have been carefully chipped for use as a weapon, or implement ; in shape it is unique, as flint implements generally take the shape of an arrow head or axe, either for the purpose of war or for the chase." In reference to this weapon the following appeared in the " Athenaum": " Last week a very remarkable flint implement was exhibited at the Anthropological Institute. All agreed that it was unique ; the best authorities had seen nothing like it, and there was unlimited scope for dis cussion on its uses, for there was an enticing mystery about it. At last someone whispered, ' Flint Jack '* was abroad ; and the implement, or weapon, or whatever it may be, was again handled by the best authorities, and rubbed, scraped, weighed, microscoped, smelt, and perhaps tasted, and they laid it down in utter inde cision." . No one could guess its history, and it now lies in its old home, the Ryde Institute. A stone celt, from Hillyards, formerly in possession of Mr. C. Roach Smith, and a remarkably fine spear head found on the beach near Plumbly's Hotel, at Freshwater, are also among the later discoveries. Another was found opposite to Stowgate Farm, lying a few yards down the broken slope of the cliff, among the debris of the capping of drift, which had evidently fallen quite recently, and was probably let down owing to the underlying Bembridge Marls, upon which it rested, having given way. At this spot the drift is between seventy and eighty feet high, ordnance-datum, and the spot is nine hundred yards west of the coast guard station. *A celebrated maker of spurious flint implements. He died some years before. 

 P14  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000014.xml 
  

 P101  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000101.xml 
  

 P83  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000083.xml 
 description of beds. 59 it is the habit of animals of such genera as Pinna and Panopæa to assume when alive. " ' After this a temporary change followed, when an influx of sand mingling with the calcareous mud, caused a state of sea-bottom peculiarly favourable to the presence of animal life. In this way were called into existence a multitude of species which were added to those w-hich had appeared before these. This was, in fact, such a state of sea-bottom as is now presented by great shell-banks ; but it does not seem to have lasted long, and new depositions of mud appear to have extinguished some forms, whilst others suffered from the change only in the diminution of their numbers. In the midst of this muddy epoch, a tem porary and peculiar condition of sea-bottom, forming what are now called The Crackers, called forth the presence of numerous mollusca, at first of various species of the genus Gervillia, Cerithium, Dentalium, and other univalves, which appear to have enjoyed but a brief existence (as species) in this locality, since similar conditions were never afterwards repeated. The greater number of the Gasteropodous mollusca of the English Lower Greensand are found within this very limited range. At the close of the deposition of this great mass of clay there was for a time a great multiplication of the individuals of certain Brachiopoda which had commenced their existence in the lowest beds. Thus Rhynchonella Gibbsii suddenly appear in immense abun dance, covering the bottom of the sea, and predomi nating over the animals among which it had previously been but thinly scattered. "'This lowest zone of Terebratula marks the com mencement of a new state of sea-bottom where sands 

 P55  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000055.xml 
 THE CRACKERS ROCKS. 33 in his " Monograph of the Crustacea."" But of late years these fossils appear to have thinned out, and to have become exceedingly sparse, and those which are found seem to have undergone a different chemical change, and to have become transformed into pyrites. They are called by the fishermen " fossil Prawns." The best time to search for them is when the clays are laid bare by the wash of the sea on the strand, or in the cliffs, after rains. The Upper portion of these deposits yields a much larger variety of evidently the same species, named Meyeria Vectensis. These are found sparse in the upper beds, and are generally enclosed either in slabs of hardened clay, or mostly in oblong nodules of septaria. This bed contains small Lobster remains, also in the same state of preservation. The first subdivision (i) is composed of brown sand and clay. Many of the fossils here are found in groups, and without matrix ; also on slabs, exposed in relief. The following is a miscellaneous list of the most characteristic : — Pholadomya Martini Corbula stria tula Nucula simplex „ spathnlata „ scapha Mytilus æqualis Pinna Robinaldina Venus Vectensis Avicula lanoeolata Gervillia linguloides Gryphæa liarpa Pecten orbicularis Lima Anomia lævigata „ convexa Ammonites Dushayesii ,, Cornuelian us ,, Hambro\'ii Astacus Vecteusis The concretions in this bed also contain the fol lowing : — * " Palæontographical Society " for 1862. C 

 P199  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000199.xml 
 OSBORNE. 143 The fossils of the Headon beds are repeated along the shore from Headon Hill to East Cowes and Norris Castle. Osborne or St. Helen's Beds. Between the Upper Headon beds, the Bembridge Limestone, and the brackish water bed with Potamomya, that terminates the Headon series, " a considerable thickness of strata intervenes, deserving," writes the late Professor Forbes, "of a distinct appellation on account of their mineralogical and paleontological peculiarities, and of their holding an intermediate character between the Middle and Upper Eocene strata."* Professor Forbes, it appears, named them the " St. Helen's Beds, ' but afterwards designated them the " Osborne series," on finding them displayed in the cliffs under Her Majesty's residence. A little to the west of Osborne they occur in conjunction with the Upper Headon series, whilst a little to the east they underlie the Bembridge Limestone. The lithographical peculiarities are remarkably displayed in these cliffs, but unfortunately visitors to the neighbourhood are unable to study them, as strangers are not admitted to the Royal domains. " In the cliffs and on the shore west of Wootton Creek the Bembridge Limestone rises above variegated red and green marls and clays belonging to this group, though, owing to the landslips, the minute arrange ments of the strata are not easily to be made out." | * Mem. Geol. Surv., 1856, Isle of Wight, p. 71. + Mem. Geol. Surv.. 1860, Forbes, Isle of Wight, p. 76. 

 P73  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000073.xml 
 sandown bay. 49 This division ends the description of the Atherfield section of the Lower Greensand deposits and organic remains. According to Dr. Fitton, these deposits contain 1 50 species of shells, the stratagraphical position of which has been accurately determined. From this it appears that 130 species occur in the lowermost 150 feet of strata, and that in the upper beds — comprising a thick ness of nearly 700 feet — but twenty additional species are met, with few, if any, organic remains appearing in the upper layers. Thus, it appears, six-sevenths of them occur in the lowermost 150 feet, or in the first three groups, and throughout the remainder of the distance, from the Crackers to the Gault — the greatest portion of the formation — but eighteen additional are added to the list. Geological writers say but little on the section of Lower Greensand at the east end of Sandown Bay, and, excepting the remarkable position in which the deposits are thrown, owing to the upheaval of the Wealden, there is little of interest. It corresponds as to geological site and high inclination of the strata to that of Compton Bay. It is obscure at the upper part, but affords as good a view of the junction with the Wealden as other places mentioned. The organic remains in the upper beds of the deposits are all destroyed, chiefly by the infiltration of iron, and those that are recognisable are in such a decomposed state as to be untransportable — the Lower, or Perna beds, however, being excepted. Dr. Fitton has given a section representing between four and five miles, in which Shanklin Down forms the western, and Bembridge Down the eastern limit. On the eastern side of the Bay the flinty chalk has a total thick- D 

 P112  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000112.xml 
 78 THE UPPER GREENSAND. This division also contains three or four beds of black and dark grey flinty chert, the lowermost of which is about two feet thick, and called by Dr. Mantell "coarse chalcedony." The upper beds are crowded with spicula of sponges. Besides these, there are several thin bands of white brittle chert, apparently siliceous, and breaking into square fragments. This series of deposits is very sparsely fossiliferous, the fossils being chiefly derived. Some of the layers contain comminuted shells with single waterworn valves of Ostrea conica, etc. I have upon two or three occasions discovered a large Nautilus in the upper beds of this series of deposits, the chambers of which were filled with a dark blue chalcedony. This division contains the following fossils Spicula of sponge, with spongoid bodies Fossil coniferous wood Pecten quinquecostatus Exogyra (Ostrea) conica Ammonites inflatus Nautilus Teeth of Otodus and Lamna Fourth Division (Chloritic Marl, etc.) Deposited upon a seam of irregular-bedded Rag, being the topmost layer of the chert beds, is a layer of laminated pea-green sand, about one foot four inches thick, which indicates an almost sudden change in the deposits. A thin seam of comminuted shells runs through this, with numerous entire single valves of Pecten orbicularis, and Pecten quinquecostatus. 

 P69  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000069.xml 
 foliated clay and sand. 45 part of this division they are associated with Inoceramus. This bed contains the following fossils ; ist Division : — Thetis minor Rostellaria Robinaldina Lonchopteris Mantelli | Inoeeramus concentricus „ neocomiensis 2nd Division : — Coniferous wood Mytilns æqualis Thetis minor Gervillia Forbesiana Pecten interstriatus Gryphæa sinnata (several remai kable varieties) Terebratula sella Facoides Vegetable remains Eleventh Division. The Cliff-End Sands (20 feet) These consist of sands with a subordinate bed of fossiliferous clay, with Trigonia, in the Lower part ; and in the Upper part of dark bluish clay and green sand, with pyritiferous concretions, some of which resemble the stems of plants. This division is sparsely fossiliferous. It contains Panopæa plicata Pinna Robinaldina Ammonites Martini Lonchopteris Mantelli Trigonia rudis (Dædalea ?) Twelfth Division. Foliated Clay and Sand (25 feet). This Division consists of twenty-five feet of alter nations of dark blue clay and greenish sand, and contains concretions of pyrites, and large irregular masses of coarse sandstone. They are displayed in the cliffs between Walpen and Blackgang Chines, 

 P271  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000271.xml 
 APPENDIX. 213 Valley,"* and I cannot do better than quote the passage at length. Professor Jones writes : — " We see that in the Hampshire area the much denuded Tertiary beds and their gravel cappings form a half lozenge, having its blunt apex between Salisbury and Winchester, and reaching beyond Chichester on the east, and nearly to Dorchester on the west, with the Channel and the Solent on the south. And this is recognizable as the main portion of a broad spoon shaped trough (syncline, or rather centrocline), that was flanked by the out-coming chalk of Dorset, Wilts, and Hants on its north, and had for its southern border the upturned Chalk strata of a southern anticlinal fold, now mostly destroyed by the sea. This border was continuous with the chalk around Dorchester; and, passing as an unbroken ridge through what is now Purbeck and the Isle of Wight, it stretched eastward to join the Chalk of Sussex, and extended south and east as part of the great Chalk area of north-western France. "This somewhat lozenge-shaped area of soft Tertiaries and gravelsf had a symmetrical river-system, draining inwards from the harder and higher chalk margin (as readily seen on any map of Dorset, Hants, and the Isle of Wight) ; and a large central river ran from west to east, opening out, at an early date, below Selsea. Subsequently the wall of chalk and otb^r upturned strata, between Swanage and the IsL Wight, was breached by the sea outside and the streams within ; and Handfast Point, with "Old Harrj • Trans. Newbury District Field Club, 1870-71, p. 30. + See Thos. Codrington on the superficial deposits of the south of Hampshire and the Isle of Wight, Quart. Jour. Geol. Soc, xxvi. 1870, p. 528, etc. 

 P146  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000146.xml 
 102 CHALK FORMATION. shells. All the above named shells disappear with the close of the Chalk Marl deposits, except the Nautilus, and now and then an isolated specimen of an Ammonite or other fossil found sometimes in the Grey Chalk. White Chalk. The principal heights of the central ridge and the southern range of Downs, according to the Ordnance Survey, are as follows. They are given from east to west; what is termed the "backbone of the Island" being taken first, and the southern outliers after. feet. Bembridge Down ... ... ... 343 Brading ,, ... ... ... 407 Messly „ ... ... ... 413 Arreton ,, ... ... ... 444 Chillerton ,, ... ... ... 549 Idlecombe ,, . ... ... ... 526 Brixton ,', ... ... ... 701 Mottistone ,, ... ... ... 667 Afton ,, ... ... ... 259 High „ 483 Southern Downs. Shanklin Down ... ... ... 772 Boniface ,, ... ... ... 787 Week „ 689 Greenlid Hill ... ... ... 522 St. Catherine's Down ... ... 781 

 P223  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000223.xml 
 st. Catherine's down. 165 They likewise differ from the beds in Totlands Bay in containing neither the remains of numerous shells of Helix aperta, H. aspersa, H. nemoralis, H. ericetorum, H. virgata, H. rotundata, Bulimus lubricus, etc., and small fragments of chalk, Upper Green sandstone (with occasionally a small fossil from the latter formation) and chert sparingly disseminated throughout The thickness of this deposit does not exceed nine feet. It may readily be distinguished from the chalk by its darker colour, and by its forming a slightly receding and vertical wall-like cliff, while the chalk and chloritic marl upon which it reposes are of a whiter hue, and slope gently from its base towards the edge of the cliff."* Coarse gravels occur along the surface of the terrace which forms the Undercliff, at different heights ; they are fully exposed in the neighbourhood of Ventnor and Bonchurch, and consist of (more especially in the upper portions) angular blocks of the adjacent strata of Upper Greensand, nodules of flints, and masses of Chalk Marl, in some cases associated with dark loam, and smaller pieces of the same rocks. A good section about six feet thick may be seen in a cutting for a new road, on the Steephill estate, above the Castle, leading to the Wroxall road. The deposits continue to the left of the road leading to Ventnor, and contain large quantities of land shells, especially Cyclostoma elegans. In a quarry near the cliff a large quantity of this deposit have been washed into a fissure, completely filling it. To the right of the Zig-zag Road, near Steephill view, another thick and similar bed occurs, in which bones and teeth of the horse, hog, * Mem. Geol. Surv., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 99. 

 P204  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000204.xml 
 148 TERTIARY SERIES. The Limestone in Whitecliff Bay forms a con spicuous and well-developed member of the Eocene strata. It rises from the shore into a cliff with a rapid and sudden curve, forming in great part the floor of the Bay between it and Foreland Point ; it constitutes the reef of rocks known as Bembridge Ledge, the extremity of which extends far out to sea, and on this a light ship, known as the Nab light, is stationed. The creamy whiteness and angular fracture of these beds make them conspicuous among the neighbouring strata, even at a distance. The four groups have the following characteristic distinctions : — Group 1. Marls and clays with Melania turritissima, Cerithium mutabile and Cyrena pulchra. Group 2. Clays and Marls with bones of turtle Group 3. The least in extent, but important as shewing the evident influx of salt water during its depo sition, as traced by the oyster and marine shell remains. It forms a narrow band between the marls and limestones, and can be best examined in Whitecliff Bay and below St. Helen's. It also occurs on the shore at Hempstead and Thorness. Group 4. Comprises the uppermost limestone of Headon Hill, Sconce, Hempstead Ledge, Gurnet Bay, Cowes, Binstead, Dodpits, and between Stony Cross and Place on the western part of the Island, and Bembridge on the eastern. 

 P214  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000214.xml 
 156 tertiary series. order of things. Neither does it seem that the strata composing the Hempstead series are sufficiently dis tinguished by any striking peculiarities from the other Fluvio-marine deposits to be made a separate forma tion. In fact the evidence tends rather to show that the entire Fluvio-marine series consists of alternations of freshwater, estuary, and marine deposits, characterised by the presence of certain shells, some of which are common to several of the formations ; and that the whole thickness of these accumulations, extending from the base of the Headon Beds to the highest beds of Hempstead, were deposited in uninterrupted succession, without the intervention of a break from first to last."* The following are the fossils! of Hempstead Series : — Chara, 3 species Caudoni Forbesii Ostrea callifera Cardium Cerithium, 8 sp. Limnæa, 2 or 3 sp. Melania, 5 sp. Melanopsis, 2 sp. Murex Forbesii Natica labellata Nematura parvula Neretina, 2 sp. Paludina lenta Planorbis, 2 sp. Rissoa Chastelii Voluta Forbesii Corbula, 2 sp. Cyrena, 2 sp. Cytherea Lyellii Modiola Prestwichii Mya (Panopæa) minor Nucula Tellina Unio, 2 species The middle Freshwater and Estuary Marls of Hempstead are so hidden by landslips and mud streams that persons desiring to collect fossils should confine collect fossils should confine their search to the dry weather periods, otherwise, owing to the soft tenacious character of the soil, such a task becomes almost impossible. * Mem. Geol. Surv., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 91. + Mem. Geol. Survey, Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 96. 

 P134  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000134.xml 
 96 chalk formation. The upper bed is from four to six inches thick. These beds I propose to name the Ammonites falcatus zones, as this fossil is peculiar to the beds. Ammonites Falcatus. It appears from the lithological character of these two beds that an almost sudden change took place, and instead of the mixed calcareous matter described, we are at once introduced to the Chalk Marl proper. Here the Scaphite of the Chalk Marl first makes its appearance, associated with such characteristic fossils as Ammonites Mantelli, A. varians, Turrelites tuberculatus. From the basement bed, or Fossiliferous Marl, up to the zones of Ammonites Rhotomagensis, the distance is approximately between forty and fifty feet, probably more than less. But, as has been stated, no exact measurement of these deposits can as yet be taken. The lowermost beds are exposed in detached portions in a small Bay below Devonshire Terrace, at Ventnor, where they remain tilted up in the position in which they fell during the great landslip which caused the formation 

 P58  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000058.xml 
  

 P88  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000088.xml 
 64 THE LOWER GREENSAND. a firm group of ferruginous beds has stopped the corroding action of the streamlet — a thin line of water falls lazily from a height of 74 feet, and is dissipated before it reaches the gloomy vault below. The rocks, instead of the deep black the tourist was led to antici pate, are of a dingy brown, banded with lines of sandy strata. The banks on either side are of but mean height and irregular form. The tourist is fortunate who sees Blackgang Chine during a storm, when the sea runs very high upon the coast, breaking upon the beach in a line of snowy surf, the back draught of it being powerful enough to take a person off his legs, and place him in some considerable danger. But in a gale of wind from the S.W. the line of breakers exhibit waves of a larger size and more magnificent motion than on almost any other part of the English coast. The waves often dash with terrific fury quite into the hollow of the Chine, thence ascending into the air in dense clouds of spray."* After describing the Western Chines Sir Henry Englefield writes : " The next Chine is that at Black gang, directly under the western flank of St. Catherine's Hill. This is a chasm totally different from those already described. It does not wind so far from the shore, neither are its sides quite so steep, but it is much more considerable in depth, as one of its flanks is four hundred feet from the sea beach. The chasm does not, however, descend quite to the sea, as at seventy-four feet above the water a thin stratum of very solid ironstone forms a bed to the little rill which runs through the Chine. No vegetation clothes any * Venables' Guide, 1866. 

 P18  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000018.xml 
 4 WEALDEN FORMATION, the Point the beds arch over and incline opposite ways ; in one case in a direction slightly varying from due north, so as to bring them beneath the Lower Green sand in Compton Bay, where they disappear ; and in the other in an easterly direction towards Atherfield Point, where they also disappear beneath the same strata. Thus it will be seen that, both at the west and the east, the Wealden strata are terminated at their junc tion with the Lower Greensand. From thence they are prolonged beneath the sea to the Isle of Purbeck, and in an easterly direction beneath Atherfield Point. Having briefly described the strata at Brook Point, and the Pine Raft, it will not be necessary to give more than a brief outline of the deposits which con stitute the Wealden formation, owing to the sameness of them throughout, and, although interesting from a scientific point of view, would be of little interest to the general reader. I have, however, given an appended description of the lithological composition of the beds, together with a list of the fossils, at the end of the chapter. The whole is divided into two groups, — the Upper and the Lower. The Upper will be found at Atherfield Point, and the Lower at Brook Point. The Upper consists of dark shaly clay, splitting on exposure to the weather into what is termed paper shales, together with seams of sand and thin layers of shelly limestone ; and the Lower of sandstone, and red, green, and variegated marls. " Westward of Brook Point, and for a considerable distance beyond Compton Grange Chine, the red marls and sandstones, which form the base of the Wealden 

 P103  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000103.xml 
 Æije ©pper (greensanti. " You may trace him, By scars which his activity has left Beside our roads and pathways He who, with pocket hammer, smites the edge Of every luckless rock or stone that stands : Detaching — by the stroke — A chip or splinter to resolve his doubts : And, with that ready answer satisfied, Doth to the substance give some barbarous name, Then hurries on, or from the fragments picks His specimen." — Wordsworth. VWj^^fe ESTING everywhere, as it does, upon the t l(\V^*> Gault, the Upper Greensand yet has its widest area on the south side of the Island. 'jt-»j*^_* Having carefully measured the strata as a whole, I have, for convenience, divided the series into four divisions, and have given a list of the fossils found in each division. First Division. With respect to the lower fifty feet of grey micaceous sand and clay, locally termed " rubble Gault," after a careful examination of it at different heights from the Gault proper, I found no fossils which could be identi fied. All that could be detected were some fragments of shells scattered through the upper portion, which 

 P35  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000035.xml 
 description of the strata. 21 45- Sandstone. 46. Greyish green sand, with lignite and pyrites scattered through it. Variegated marls, with lenticular harder bands and potato-shaped calcareous concretions. Lignite occasionally — but rarely seen in Chilton Chine. Sandstone, capped by pale grey sandstone with siphonoid markings, and forming conglo- merate in places. Thickens greatly east- ward, and forms Bull Rock Ledge. Several cracked surfaces. Fish remains. 47 48 A break occurs in the section at this point. Soft green and purple marls — crumbly. Thins away eastward. Hard red variegated marls, with waving and irregular bands of hard grit. A band of concretionary pebbles. Lignite band ; hard and soft grey and white marly sands. Fir cones. Hard band, with stems of wood and fish. Pale grey sandstone : upper 18 inches very hard, 1 foot softer, with lignite, passing into red marly sandstone. Whitish sandstone (red in places), with pale pyritous concretions below. Thick, but irregularly bedded below ; much contorted above. Traces of cracked surface on top. Pine Raft, in sandstone at Brook Point, with 49 5° 5i 52 53 54 55 56 57^ concretions and nodules of pyrites, 3 or 4 feet exposed. Variegated marls seen below. Total thickness (about) 544 feet. Atherfield Point to Brook. 1. Base of Perna beds. 2. Green clays. 3. Dark grey sandy clays. Fossils few above : Cypris spinosa abundant below. 4. Limestone with large cylas : beef at top and bottom. 

 P92  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000092.xml 
 66 THE LOWER GREENSAND. This portion of the coast, for probably centuries, was sadly celebrated for shipwrecks, and, unfortunately loss of life and property. One of the most terrible on' record was that of the " Clarendon," West Indiaman, of 350 tons burden, on her homeward voyage from St. Kitts, with 11 passengers and 17 seamen, all of whom perished, on the morning of the nth October, 1836, with the exception of the mate and two seamen. After this catastrophe the authorities, in 1840, erected the St. Catherine's lighthouse, since which there has been a great diminution of wrecks at this spot, which, from their frequent occurrence, and the continual loss of life, in bygone days was not inaptly called " The Bay of Death." Among the yellow shingle and sand which covers the shore to some depth, gold dust, Spanish dollars, ignots of silver, coins, jewellry, pigs of lead, etc., have been found by old shore walkers, during this and the last century, memorials of long-forgotten wrecks, which finds have been handed down by tradition and history, reminding one of the dream of Clarence, wherein the sea-bottom was laid bare of its objects, which are thus described : — " Methought I saw a thousand fearful wrecks, A thousand men that fishes gnawed upon, — Wedges of gold, great anchors, heaps of pearl, Inestimable stones, unvalued jewels, All scattered in the bottom of the sea. Some lay in dead men's skulls, and in these holes Where eyes did once inhabit, there were crept (As 'twere in scorn of eyes) reflecting gems That woo'd the slimy bottom of the deep, And mock'd the dead bones that lay scattered by." 

 P84  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000084.xml 
 60 THE LOWER GREENSAND. predominated over the clays, each interval of deposition being usually marked by the presence of a layer of Exogyra sinuata, the period of rest being almost always sufficient to enable the Exogyra to attain its full growth. Other bivalves are found with it, but in comparatively small numbers, and not such as are of gregarious habits. During the whole of this period enormous Cephalopoda, including species of Crioceras and Scaphites, frequented these seas, and when dead formed the nuclei round which calcareous and sandy matter collected and formed nodules. The death of these animals seems to have been connected with the periodical charging of the sea with sediment ; hence we find them usually alternating with the zones of Exogyra, and forming irregular bands in the intervening sedimentary deposits. " ' In the midst of this epoch of Exogyra there is a sudden reappearance of the muddy deposits, during the predominance of which those animals adapted for such a sea-bottom, and which had survived the cessation of the deposits of the fullers' earth, again multiplied, but the species which had become extinguished were not replaced by representative forms. This, however, did not last long, the sand again predominating, with its zones of Exogyra and lines of Crioceras nodules. " ' A temporary multiplication of Terebratula sella suddenly marks a change in the zoological conditions, for the Cephalopoda disappear, although the zones of Exogyra, which animal does not appear to have been affected by the change (probably a change in the depth of the sea) go on as before, there being, however, no alternating lines of nodules. It would seem that the sea began to shallow, probably from elevation of the 

 P263  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000263.xml 
 THE HUMAN PERIOD. 205 "On the middle west Down, beyond Nunwell, Isle of Wight, facing the north and east, by kind permission from Lady Oglander, the owner of the estate, I removed about 15 inches of earth from the present surface on a spot I had previously marked, feeling convinced, from its peculiar shape (once, no doubt, an extensive mound or tumulus, but now flattened), and its faint outline of mixed chalk, forming a large circle, barely perceptible to the ordinary observer, on the ground ploughed up for cultivation, that something worthy of investigation lay hidden. " By compass I trenched the north, south, east, and west, when I quickly came upon a most compact body of flints, so placed that when the whole surface was uncovered, it bore the exact shape of a large mushroom, for upon examination I found it equal on all sides, from the apex to the outside of the circle, well put together ; in fact, like a solid paved causeway, measuring in diameter twenty-two and a half feet, and nearly two feet fourteen inches in depth in the centre of the flints, measuring down to twelve inches. Under this extraordinary mass of flints, and exactly in the centre of the circle, there was a round stone (not flint), as if placed to mark the centre and act as a guide round which the flints were to be placed to form a proper circle. Close to this stone was an urn or " passing cup," with two handles placed horizontally, the holes in each handle being so small as to suggest that it was intended to pass a string through for suspension. It only contained earth and a few chips of flint, stood upright, and is five and threequarters inches high, and eight inches in diameter, apparently of unbaked clay, with very rude diamond-shaped markings scratched on 

 P279  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000279.xml 
 ADDENDUM. 221 river, and in the marshes, the Equisetum and plants of a like nature grew and flourished. But it is the animals of this period that more par ticularly excite our wonder and interest. Beginning with the lowest forms, we find in certain shales and clays thousands upon thousands of minute crustaceans, the little bivalved form known as Cypridea. There are many species, and in some localities their remains are so plentiful as to cause the rocks ("paper-shales") in which they are embedded to split up into thin layers, thus giving them the name. Shepherd's Chine, Brixton Bay, and Sandown Bay will yield the collector abundant examples. The mollusca are represented in the Wealden beds by Paludina, Potamides, and other univalves, and among the bivalves are Unio and Cyrena. In many cases these shells exist in great masses, and bear witness to the flooding of the stream with muddy matter, and to the minor disturbances of the great river, which would tend to confine the shells to certain spots, and bury them suddenly. Of the existence of fishes we have abundant proofs, and we also know that they were of large size. Lepidotus has left its traces all through the series, and its lozenge-shaped scales are often met with. Hybodus, with its shark-like teeth and strong spine, also occurs, and must have been a tyrant to the other inhabitants of the waters. Reptiles seem to have found the conditions of life especially favourable ; the waters swarmed with turtles, whilst crocodiles appear to have existed in equal numbers. The Pterodactyle, or flying reptile, survived through the Jurassic period, and passing right through the Wealden, finally died out in the Chalk, some 

 P109  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000109.xml 
 UPPER GREENSAND. -Ammonite snec Panojicea Tlicalet Ammonite inflatus 

 P53  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000053.xml 
 THE CRACKERS ROCKS. 31 limestone, and are almost unfossiliferous. In some cases groups of small shells are clustered on their outsides, with pieces of fossil wood, much decayed, and pierced with teredo. Captain Ibbetson, during his survey of the Atherfield deposits, discovered a large nodule, belonging to the Upper deposits, containing several large Trigonia Dadalea, lying on the beach, but were found to be so firmly impacted in the rock, that scarcely a single specimen could be extracted, or separated from the surrounding matrix. These fossils are much larger in the Upper than in the Lower zone. In contrast to these, the Lower zone of nodules is highly interesting, on account of the number and variety of the fossils it contains. It differs from the upper tier of boulders, which is easily distinguished by its extreme hardness and blueish colour : whilst the lower is more easily broken, and slightly ferruginous, and, however hard the nodules are when first fallen from the cliff, they cannot resist the frosts of winter, which split them open, thus disclosing their fossil contents. The reason they were called The Crackers — a name given them by the fishermen — is, that both zones of boulders or concretion first make their appearance on the shore, and are, in consequence, exposed to the action of the waves, which often sweep the cliff for days together, and excavate a cavern in the sands and clays beneath, or between the layers of nodules. This is often aided by fissures in the cliff, caused by the upheaval of the strata. In consequence, the waves rush into these caverns, driving before them a volume of air, which produces a loud concussion. In some instances one or more of the nodules form 

 P221  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000221.xml 
 T0TLANDS bay. 163 Lacrustine Beds of Totlands Bay. These beds " occupy the upper part of the cliff in Totlands Bay, for a distance of nearly 350 yards, and form a deposit of very variable character. On the top is an unequal thickness of brown loam, containing a few scattered angular flints, beneath which is a layer of brown clay and perished shells, resting on four or five feet of calcareous tufa (with a few black lines derived from decomposed vegetable matter), sometimes equalling fluvio-marine limnæan limestone in hardness. This tufa is finest in the upper part, and becomes gradually coarser towards the bottom, where it is full of round calcareous concretions of various sizes, and of what seem to be the twigs and stems of plants, which, having fallen into the water highly charged with carbonate of lime, became enveloped by it. The concentric concretions are largest at the base of the deposit, and decrease in size in an upward direction, the whole deposit resting on an uneven surface of the Eocene Potamomya sands, which underlie the Limæan limestone of Totlands Bay. Occasionally there is a layer of small angular flints intervening between the tufa and the sands. The whole of the deposit in question seems to have been quietly and gradually formed in a hollow beneath the waters of a pool or small lake which received the surface drainage of the surrounding higher ground. A portion only of the bed of this lake now remains, which probably ceased to exist when, by the wearing away of the land, the sea cliffs encroached upon its western margin, and thus drained it of its water. The 

 P49  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000049.xml 
 FOSSILS from the PERNA BEDS Sphœra coTruqata Ciit.Alhtt/ Gobriehs Triqcnia aiœform is 

 P277  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000277.xml 
 ADDENDUM. ••>_-"•<.?•-?__ 5>^vSgh INCE the chapters on the Wealden were jQ-Sja^V printed, a friend to whom I am indebted '&==— iy for valuable assistance in the compilation -V--V ,f) '»£~f\£ an<^ revision of the present work, has kindly (*^> sent me the following well written paper as an addendum to the chapter on the Wealden. As it contains ideas and facts bearing upon the subject by men who have carefully studied the phenomena of the formation, and who may be considered reliable authori ties, I have inserted it as an appendix. Having glanced over the Wealden formation as exposed in the Island, I will now give a sketch of the country of the Iguanodon, as Mantell called it, in his " Petrifactions and their Teachings," and the nature of its flora and fauna. The Wealden strata were deposited in the form of a delta by a great river, which, according to Mr. Wood,* probably came from the west,! having its sources on land, long since destroyed, between Ireland and Spain, and its course coincident with the present English Channel. This delta extended, according to the present evidence, from the Isle of Purbeck to Belgium and Germany (Hanover), and traces of it are found in central France. * Phil. Mag., 1863. ser. 4, vol. xxv., pi. 5. t Geikie, in his " Text Book," 1882, p. 817, says, " The river probably des cended from the north-west, draining a vast area, of which the existing mountain groups of Britain are perhaps merely fragments." 

 P40  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000040.xml 
  

 P258  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000258.xml 
 200 THE HUMAN PERIOD. before mentioned. Systematic search, however, might probably reveal their presence. The early inhabitants of the Island also used the vertical fissures in the cliffs, called "vents," as places for refuse. They are now filled with soil washed into them by the rains, and from them both human and animal remains have been exhumed. The late Dr. Martin, in writing upon this subject, writes: — "The vast masses of the Upper Greensand are everywhere pierced by fissures, containing in many instances relics, by no means uninteresting. I have in my possession the remains of several human skeletons, which were found about ten feet below the surface, when excavating a bank in my garden The bank consisted of immense fragments of rock thrown confusedly together, and the bones were lying without any order, in one case the body being bent, as if it had been overwhelmed. They comprised the remains of persons of different ages, from infancy to old age. The cranium of one, supposed to be a female about 14 or 15 years of age, had the sharp point of a rock resting upon it, and a fracture on the opposite side of the skull. The lower jaw and teeth of an adult were in a very perfect state. I could discover no traces of utensils or instruments, or indeed relics of any description. Various other human bones have been found when quarrying in this district. The skeleton of a young female was discovered about seven feet below the surface, and in such a position as to create a belief that she had been buried by a fall of earth. In this instance an armlet, apparently of bronze, and weighing 472 grains, pronounced by the Archæological Society 

 P293  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000293.xml 
 ECONOMICS. 235 pronounced it excellent in quality, but not sufficient in quantity to cover the expense of smelting. Large quantities of it are strewed along the shore. Cement Stones are obtained to a small extent from Alum Bay, but the greatest supply is now derived from the opposite coast of Hampshire, where the Septaria, which once formed a portion of the Barton beds, are procured by dredging (Geological Survey, p. 107). The manufacture of cement is carried on in mills on the west bank of the Medina, below Newport, by the Messrs. Francis, of Nine Elms, London, in which the Septaria dredged from the bed of the Solent are manufactured into cement, giving employment to a great number of hands. At Gurnard Bay, seventy years ago, quarries of the Bembridge Limestone were much worked, and some of the fortifications at Portsmouth were constructed from them. Hassel states that in fine weather there were three or four sloops trading with this limestone. It is still used, both in the Island and elsewhere (see p. 152). The white Pipe-Clay of the Lower Bagshot beds, which is so largely developed in Dorsetshire, almost entirely disappears in the Isle of Wight, being replaced there by sands. In Alum Bay the Pipe-Clay is repre sented by a bed only six feet thick ; but it still retains its usual characters, and is marked by the presence of leaves of plants resembling those which are found associated with the corresponding clays of Dorsetshire. Between Alum Bay and Freshwater Gate the Pipe 

 P102  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000102.xml 
 Section of the Chloritic Marl and Upper Greensand, at Ybntnor Isle of Wig»t. Division I. Division II. Division III. Dm. IV. Sandstone and. LRaq Beds. Upper Oreensand and ifoO. Chlo.Marl y CherlBeJs. trFoss.M. 

 P242  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000242.xml 
 1 84 DENUDATION AND LANDSLIPS. The extensive reefs stretching seaward from every headland on the south coast, forming the horns of the bays along the shore, from Compton Bay on the west, to Bembridge or the Foreland on the east, are evidences of the great destruction of land wrought by the sea. These reefs are remains of strata which, by their harder nature, have been able to resist the power by which the softer portions have been destroyed. The most noted reefs are "Bull's Face" and "Brook Ledge," which form Brixton Bay, whose cliffs are formed of the Wealden Clays. Atherfield Ledge or Bench, and Rockenend Ledge, or St. Catherine's Point, form the two extremities of Chale Bay. The distance between these points cannot be less than three miles, and each point projects several miles into the sea in a southerly direction. Their extent, as has before been stated, is indicated by the disturbance of the sea. Woody Point, about a mile-and-a-quarter from Ventnor, is a headland with a reef projecting seawards to a great distance. Sandown Bay is formed by Shanklin Ledge and Point on the west and Culver Cliffs on the east. Whitecliff Bay has the Culver Cliffs at its western extremity and Bembridge Point and Ledge at its eastern. Both Bays are examples of the extent to which a deposit of sands and clays can be hollowed out, and carried away by the sea. Entering upon the historic period it will be seen that the unusual causes which produced the Undercliff have been repeated occasionally since on a smaller scale ; probably the same phenomena will again act upon the isolated portions of the great wall, with similar results, though in a lesser proportion. 

 P170  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000170.xml 
 120 CHALK FORMATION. Agates," most of which are imported from Germany, and are of artificial manufacture. Amongst the flints which strew the shore are some of a large, conical, or rounded shape. They are very massive, and I once came across a specimen which measured 2ft. iin. in length, and 1st. 3m. in thickness; it was in the form of a flattened cone, and quite smooth on the outside, as are the rest of these peculiar masses. When struck with a hammer they give out a ringing sound like earthenware. Of a light cream colour they appear when broken to be composed of a mixture of white chalk and silex ; irregular cavities ramify through them, and some of them are filled with a whitish powder, gritty to the touch, though it does not soil the fingers_ I was informed by the late Mr. Guyon, who examined it microscopially, that it was rich in Foraminifera. The usual fossils found in these flint nodules are Ananchytes ovatus, Terebratula octopiicata, Inoceramus Cuvieri, spines and tests of Cidaris, &c. I propose to call them "Porcelain Flints"; they doubtless belonged to the Upper White Chalk, as they may yet be seen embedded in the white clay at the base of the cliffs. The presence of chalcedony and quartz in the geodic nodules opens the interesting question of the passage of fluids through flints. It may be presumed that it is possible for a fluid to find its way through flint, the particles being finer than those of the mineral itself. The chalcedony then formed allowed a passage through its interstices to the still purer silicious matter which often formed crystals of quartz. I have several examples of flints so constructed in the collection at the Literary Institute, Ventnor, where they can be inspected by anyone interested. Large nodules of pure chalcedony 

 P63  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000063.xml 
 SCAPHITES group. 39 Exogyra Sinuata, Terebratula sella, Rynchonella Gibbsiana, as also the following : — Pecten orbicularis Gryphæa sinuata Terebratula multiformis Terebratula Gibbsiana Lima semisulcata The next bed, in ascending order, is the Scaphite bed, which also contains the following fossils : — Gryphæa sinuata (very large) Scaphites gigas Hillsii Anomia radiata Nautilus radiatus Ammonites Deshayesii „ Martini Scaphites Gigas. The Upper bed is about 28 feet in depth, and contains Gryphæa sinuata Pinna Robinaldina Ostrea carinata Ostrea fronds Terebratula sella (broad) „ Gibbsiana 

 P48  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000048.xml 
 28 THE LOWER GREENSAND. sea, thus exposing their fossil contents in relief on their surfaces. For the guidance of students and collectors, this spot should be visited at the time of low water. The Perna Mulleti alluded to occur here in great numbers, but are very difficult to extract whole, both on account of the prolonged hinge and their being so incorporated with the matrix. The difficulty is in creased by their being much mixed up with other shells and their debris. The Lower of the two beds contains the following fossils, which are miscellaneously given : — Panopæa plicata ,, Prevostii ,, mandibula Pholadomya Martini ,, Agassizi Tellina ? Astarte obovat<a(__?eaw*mo»£u) Corbula striatula Hemicardium Austeni Trigonia caudata -j Area exaltata ,, Raulina Lucina solidula ,, globiformis Mytilus simplex „ æqualis ,, bellus Venus parva „ fenestrata „ Ricordiana „ Cornueliana Thetis minor „ major Perna Mulleti Gervillia alæformis Lima undata Lima semisulcata „ Cottaldina Plicatula placunæa Ostrea, prionota „ Carenata „ retusa Gryphæa sinuata ,, lævigata Hinnites Leymerii Pecten quinquecostatus „ interstriatus Tei-ebratula sella ,, Gibbsiana ,, oblonga Rostellaria Robinaldina Emarginula Neocomiensis Natica rotundata „ gaultina Serpula Vermetes polygonalis Ammonites furcatus Cucullæa Gabrielis Tnrritella dupiniana (?) Nautilus plicatus ,, tadiatus „ saxbyii 

 P99  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000099.xml 
 GAU LT. LRr-s tell aria cos'tata. Ammonite derttatus siacLj A . eAeizarius. Ji. de.rilo.tuS Ji. denarius. Muniellarici caTXTiaiu . Au.iica aauliinn Macula riecAfin u if. Solarium omnium Delemnuella minima Inoceramus sulcah/s. InoceTamus concenlricu 

 P41  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000041.xml 
  

 P10  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000010.xml 
 IV of science, I hope the simple record of many important facts and new discoveries which have become known from time to time since the works alluded to were published, will make this work acceptable to those interested in the subject. I have endeavoured to give my descriptions in such a manner that the work may be useful to the geologist as well as enter taining to the general reader, and awaken a more widespread interest in the formation of our Island, — so small, yet so full of evidence of the years that have passed away. To Mr. Bristow's " Geology of the Isle of Wight," one of the Geological Survey Memoirs, I am indebted for much of the chapter upon the Wealden, and still more so for the valuable chapters upon the Tertiaries, and from his book quotations have been freely taken. To make my work as complete as possible, I have, in addition to my own descriptive notes, added extracts from reliable sources, and the facts relating to each division of the separate deposits have been carefully corrected and quotations introduced from the various writers who have contributed to our knowledge of the structure of the Island. In the chapter on " The Human Period" I have carried my notes down to the Roman occupation, and have inserted much matter interesting to the archæologist as well as to the 

 P254  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000254.xml 
 196 THE HUMAN PERIOD. vegetable mould, interspersed with loose stones from the adjoining Upper Greensand formation. The Church stands in the upper part of the Churchyard, and, as the gravedigger informed me, there was no doubt but that the "midden" heap extended below the founda tions of the Church, as he had himself proved it to exist in digging the graves in different parts of the ground. The Church was built more than 800 years ago. No previous examination of the ground of this locality had been made, public attention having been only just then excited by the discovery of the remains of man, accompanied by those of flint implements. Excavations in a rough piece of ground in the garden at Winterbourne, Bonchurch, brought to light a flint arrow-head, a scraper, and what appeared to be a spear head with the top fractured. This latter imple ment had been formed from a fragment of the Chert beds of the Upper Greensand, and had probably been throw-n aside on account of its broken condition. It is now in the collection at the Literary Institute, Ventnor. Roman remains (coins and pottery) have been discovered in the village. It may be surmised that a colony of ancient Britons once formed a settlement near this spot, and were suffered to remain in undisturbed possession by their Roman conquerors. The locality was well chosen,' sheltered, and close to a splendid stream of pure water. Of the bones that were discovered most of them had been broken across the centre, presumably for the purpose of extracting the marrow. Fragments of bone, treated in a similar manner, are very often met with ; they have been found in the Kirkdale Caves and elsewhere. 

 P246  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000246.xml 
 1 88 DENUDATION AND LANDSLIPS. of the brook that runs into the sea, so that now the whole is convulsed and scattered about, as if it had been done by an earthquake. Of all the rough ground, from the cottage upward to the base of the cliff, there is scarcely a foot of land but what has changed its situation ! The arable fields are likewise convulsed, but not to the degree that the rough ground is ; as far as the fence is from the Chale side, the whole may be called one grand and awful ruin. The cascade which you used to view from the house at first disappeared, but has now broken out and tumbled down into the withey-bed, of which it has made a lake ; this last appearance is owing, I suppose, to the frost, which prevents the water from running off. The few trees by the cottage, at the base of the rock on which you had placed a seat, have changed their situation, but are not destroyed. Haryey wanted, when I was there, to go into the house to fetch some trifling articles, but I dissuaded him ; and very well I did, for soon after the wall to the west sunk into the ground. What damage is done, besides that which the house has suffered, I cannot say. The whole surface, however, has undergone a complete change ; and at present there are everywhere chasms that a horse or cow might sink into and disappear. This seems to be an eventful period with us. Where your property is, there is a founder from the top of the cliff, in that piece of land which Dixon rents, which has nearly covered the whole with fragments of free-stone." The fallen material forms a talus, or slope, the loose soil becoming in time firmly consolidated, and fre quently supporting a luxurious growth of ivy, brambles and briar, materially aiding in binding the mass together. 

 P167  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000167.xml 
 clay with Flints. 117 Holaster plamis, ag., zone. — 65 feet. Very hard and nodular Chalk. The flints are usually small, and irregularly distirbuted through tlie beds ; there are numerous layers of tabular flints. (23 fossils mentioned.) Micrastu cor-test-udinarium, Gold, zone. — About 163 feet. Flints very numerous, distributed =2 irregularly, or in lines ; beds of tabular flints £ also occur (14 fossils quoted). Micrastu cor-anguinum, ag. zone. — 520 feet. Pure white, compact but soft Chalk. Contains £ "*■ Beach nodular flints, not very numerous, occuring in thick beds (18 inches to 3 feet) ; towards the top the beds of flint are replaced •z by thin bands of grey marl, in which are occasionally seen small nodules (list of 11 fossils given). Belemnitella mucrnnata zone. — 26Q feet. Not qui'e so soft as the last. In the lower part are numbers of great black flints ; in the upper part the chalk becomes softer and the flints of a smoke-grey colour (list of 24 fossils given). Notes on the Clay with Flints and the Flints found in this deposit. The flints of the Island all come from the denuda tion of the Upper White Chalk. At present I purpose to treat only of those which occur in the beds on the Downs above Ventnor, and along the shore as far as Bonchurch, Luccombe and Shanklin, and their relation to the Upper White Chalk. Sir Henry Englefield was the first to call attention to the shattered condition of the Flints of the Island, and which I have referred to in my description of the Chalk. 

 P12  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000012.xml 
 VI It has long been my wish to see Geology, with other branches of natural science, adopted in the schools of this country, and recognised as an essential part of education, as I am convinced that there is no truer basis for the interest and advancement of life than an earnest study of nature and her rich storehouses. MARK W. NORMAN. Ventnor, 1887. 

 P248  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000248.xml 
 190 DENUDATION AND LANDSLIPS. a continual source of destruction to the land ; they slowly but surely excavate it, running towards the sea and forming deep chasms, or, as they are called here, " Chines." This is especially the case along the south coast. The process, still in activity, may be seen to most advantage between Rocken End and Compton Bay; Blackgang, Walpen, Whale, Ladder, Cowleaze and Brook Chines offering the best examples. I have dwelt at some length upon surface-water as a land-destroying agent, for its importance cannot be over-estimated. The Undercliff shows us a disinte gration of strata for a distance of seven miles in an almost direct line, and one can find in this tract a very perfect series of examples of denudation. This spot so greatly celebrated for the quiet charm of its beauty, is described by Sir James Clarke, in his work upon " Climate," as "A lofty natural terrace, backed by a mountainous wall on the north, and open on the south to the full influence of the sun, from his rising to his going down, during that season when his influence is most wanted in a northern country. The climate is remarkably equable, as well as mild and dry, and there are few days during the winter months on which the invalid cannot take some exercise in the open air. The mildness and dryness of the climate during the winter months may in some degree be estimated by the circumstance of myrtles, geraniums, and various tender greenhouse plants, usually withstanding the winter in the open flower gardens. The absorption of the heat by the almost perpendicular cliffs of the Undercliff, exposed as they are to the rays of the sun during the whole day, must be considerable, even in winter, and the radiation of this heat during the night 

 P80  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000080.xml 
 56 THE LOWER GREENSAND. out of water on the side of a hill has frequently indicated the presence of this bed, when it has been superficially covered up by drift. There are no good sections inland of the Lower Greensand. What there are are comparatively unim portant, and chiefly belonging to the Upper division. Most of the ridges between the central ridge and the southern range of Chalk Downs are composed of it, ranging from Sandown, and flanking the Vale of Newchurch, which village stands upon it, to Horringford Railway Station, where it is capped by a bed of flint gravel, of from four to six feet thick, below which is a section of the Lower Greensand, containing Venus, with other fossils, probably the equivalents of those from the ironstone nodules of Shanklin. But denuda tion has been so extensive in the Island — from the effects of which the surface is extremely irregular — that it is very difficult to trace the formations inland, except in a few pits, such as near Winstone, or in the railway cutting between Ventnor and Shanklin, which belong to the upper series. At Messly, one mile from Newchurch, in a lane to the right ofthe hamlet, leading up to an extensive chalk pit, the Lower Greensand appears, followed by the Gault, Upper Greensand, and Lower Chalk in succession. The Long Stone, on the Down north of Mottistone, is described as a block of hard ferruginous grit, twelve feet long, belonging to the Upper beds, and has been placed in its present position by artificial means. At Brook, the Lower Greensand deposits are seen in the banks by the roadside. Brook Church stands on a terrace of these deposits. In ascending the road past the Church, over Shalcombe Down, the Lower 

 P39  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000039.xml 
 FOSSILS OF THE WEALDEN Tocih os the. M eaalo souths 7 vofh as the lauunodon Cvclus media Ci/cias elonoata. Lriic spec Ijnio vaZdenszs. Slab of Unic and Cycias. Poludina fluviorum.. jLatudzna elonqata. 

 P65  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000065.xml 
 WALPEN CLAYS AND SANDS. 41 Seventh Division. Walpen Clays and Sands (57 feet). The Walpen and Ladder sands and clays extend on the shore from about thirty yards east of Walpen Chine, to about half way between Ladder and Whale Chines. In the latter they are well seen, the lower 27 feet being a greenish sandy clay, with nodules, containing Ammonites Martini, and a large Gryphaa. The Upper part, about thirty-three feet, which is clayey below and sandy above, contains Dentalium, Myacites Mandibula, Pinna Robinaldina, Toxoceras in de tached portions, etc. Toxoceras. The neighbourhood of Whale and Walpen Chines is a most interesting locality, both for the practised geologist, the amateur, and the student, for the study 

 P144  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000144.xml 
  

 P280  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000280.xml 
 ADDENDUM. 222 remains having been found in recent years at Maidstone, in Kent. The Dinosaurian reptiles, of which I shall now speak, attained in this period a size and importance not reached before, and which appears to have dwindled away almost immediately after. Foremost, and best known of these great beasts, is the Iguanodon, which probably attained a length of sixty feet, and whose remains have been found in great abundance in the whole Wealden area. Unfortunately in the English deposits we have only found single, or at most a few bones in one spot ; but at Bernissart, in Belgium, many complete skeletons were discovered a few years ago, and are now to be seen in the Brussels museum, where they have been restored and built up again by M. Dollo. The remains of the Hylæosaurus, Megalosaurus (great lizard), and the Hypsilophodon, show us that their possessors must have been almost as large, if not larger than the Iguanodon. Mantell points out in his " Petrifactions " (also in " Wonders of Geology ") how the remains of these great creatures got rolled and broken, and goes on to explain that their position proves that they were floated down the river, buoyed up by the gas generated by their decomposition, and associated with trunks and leaves of trees, and other remains. They would probably lose the limbs one by one, and finally the carcase would be arrested in its course and be buried in the accumulating sediment. He also points out that in the case of the first dis covered specimen of the Hylæosaurus (forest lizard), while many of the bones were crushed and broken, yet the pieces remained close together, and relative to the position they occupied during life. The glenoid cavities were filled with stone, proving that the forelegs were 

 P290  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000290.xml 
 232 ADDENDUM. periods of incalculable antiquity and duration, and whose races are now extinct, is based that most interesting department of natural history which has recently acquired the rank of a distinct branch of modern science, under the title of Palæontology. " As the remains of animals and plants imbedded in the earth are found in different states of preservation and more or less altered in appearance and composition by mineralization, the epithets figured stones, petrifactions, fossils, organic remains, etc., are commonly employed to denote the various conditions in which such relics occur. To avoid confusion it is, therefore, necessary to define the sense in which these terms are used in the following pages ; especially as the words ' petri factions,' and ' fossils,' are very generally regarded as synonymous. " And here we must premise that the state of preservation of an organic body, and the chemical changes which it may have undergone in the mineral kingdom, have no necessary relation to its antiquity ; for in comparatively modern deposits fossil remains of animals and plants often have acquired a stony hardness, while in rocks of the most ancient epochs they are sometimes as little changed as if they had been entombed in the strata but a few centuries. " 1. Fossils, may be defined as the durable parts of animal and vegetable structures imbedded in rocks and strata by natural causes at a remote period ; thus wood in the state of lignite, bog-wood, and coal, or of silicious or calcareous stone, is fossil wood; and bones or shells, whether in an earthy and decaying state, or permeated by calc-spar, flint, or iron, and converted into a hard mineral substance; are alike fossil bones or shells. 

 P240  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000240.xml 
 182 DENUDATION AND LANDSLIPS. No description of the origin of the Undercliff sur passes the following, by Sir Henry Englefield : — " This tract, which is of various breadths, from a quarter to half-a-mile, at present exhibits a series of irregular terraces, each supported by vast fragments of rock bounded by a high wall of cliff towards the north, and in general terminated towards the sea by a very broken and indented line of cliff. The whole forms a vast mass of confused ruins, in which no regularity of strata or materials can be traced. To account in any degree for this singular appearance, it will be necessary to recur to that period, remote beyond all reach of history, when, by some great convulsion, this island was exposed to the sea in one vast range of perpendicular cliffs, such as would now appear if the whole Undercliff were removed from the wall of rock above it. The clay and sand strata attacked at their foot by the waves of the sea, in their front by wind, rain, and frosts, and above all, softened and washed away by the numerous springs which issue from under the rock, very soon became incapable of bearing the vast weight incumbent on them. The rock (divided by numerous periodical fissures^ began to part at the fissure nearest to its front, gradually subsided and slipped in an in clined position (or perhaps sometimes, though not often, fell over) until its progress was stopped by th e slope of clay on which it moved. But though at rest f< <r a time, the same causes which set it in motion would again press it forward to the sea. Its fall had left a great front of rock and clay bare, while its upper surface formed a basin, in which the waters of the springs collected into a pool, moistening still more effectually 

 P26  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000026.xml 
 WEALDEN FORMATION, 12 are mostly obscured by buildings. It would seem. however, that they come to the surface below the Barracks, underlaid by ferruginous sands and sand stones, which may be seen at the north end of the town. Red and blue clays appear near where once the old Fort stood, just beyond the beds, which up to that point dip towards the south-west, arch over, and dip again in the opposite direction. Towards the north-east their inclination gradually increases. Approaching the Lower Greensand at Red Cliff, between the two extreme points, the Wealden beds are repeated in reverse order, and the laminated grey shales and clays, abounding in cyprides, which, as usual, constitute the Upper part of the beds, re-appear in the face of the cliffs, but only so as to be clearly visible after the occurrence of slips, being at other times concealed by masses of strata, which have fallen from a higher level. I would add that, with the ex ception of a bed of Paludina Sussexensis, below the stile leading to the top of the cliff, few organic remains are to be met with ; in the bank, and in a ridge running out on the strand, they are found in groups, in a crystallised state. Until the new Fort is passed there is very little of interest, if I except the manner in which the strata are tilted up, already described. Below the new Fort, towards Red Cliff, slabs of the disintegrated harder strata, and shelly limestone, make their appearance on the shore ; and about three yards westward from the Perna beds a layer of drab-coloured septaria occurs in the cliff, blocks of which also occur on the shore, containing a vein of small Paludina. about an inch in thickness, running through the centre 

 P229  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000229.xml 
 st. Catherine's down. 171 the form of a conical-shaped rock, its large water-worn fragments resembling in form and colour the flint pebbles of the present beach. The rock is known by the fishermen as the " Bean Rock," on account of the resemblance of its smaller pebbles to beans, and a portion of a reef which extends to some depth. For a long time I was puzzled to account for the occurrence of this mass, so unlike the deposits of the neighbourhood, and in such an isolated position ; until some workmen who were engaged in excavating the beach below the waterfall, for sewerage purposes, came at some depth from the surface upon masses of shingle and rounded flint-pebbles, cemented together more or less firmly, in precisely the same manner as the Bean Rock. Its consolidation had without doubt been accomplished by the carbonate of lime contained in the falling water which had percolated through the pebbly beach, and cemented the loose stones. From this I gathered that the conglomerate rock and adjacent ledge had been formed under the same conditions (exposure to the air having probably perfected its consolidation), and that the ledge evidently was the remains of an ancient sea-beach, which at one time formed that part of the shore facing the old mill stream. Its distance from the site of the present beach may have been due to the depression of the land ; or still more probably to the weight of the disrupted strata, which must have accompanied the formation of the Undercliff, having forced it seawards. During the construction of a pier in 1865 an attempt was made to remove this ledge and rock by gunpowder ; the only result, however, was the dislodgement of a few fragments, which were carried away as curiosities 

 P189  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000189.xml 
 BARTON CLAY. 135 " The variety of the vertical layers are endless, and may be likened to the vivid stripes of a parti-coloured tulip." These sands were formerly a source of employment and profit ; glass bottles were filled with them, and by an ingenious arrangement of the different colours views of the neighbourhood, and local subjects of interest, such as the Headstone of Little Jane's Grave, Freshwater Rocks, and the Cottage of the Dairyman's Daughter were represented, and sometimes sand pictures on cardboard were executed in no mean way. The demand for these ornaments, however, has much decreased in recent years. Barton Clay. So named from the cliffs at Barton on the opposite coast of Hampshire, which contain a large series of fossils, of which some are found in the beds exposed in Alum and Whitecliff Bays. This series has a world wide celebrity, both for the number of its fossils and their fine preservation. " These beds are here represented by clays in the lower part overlying the pebble-bed already referred to as being seen in Alum and Whitecliff Bays. The nature of these deposits (which are composed of sandy clays, and sands with layers of Septaria) is suffi ciently shown in the measured sections of Alum Bay, in which locality they attain a thickness of 300 feet. There, also, they are rich in fossil remains, the whole of which are of marine origin."* * Mem. Geol. Survey, Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 46. 

 P76  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000076.xml 
 52 the lower greensand. the Point, at Shanklin, concretions of ironstone may be observed, full of fossils in a state of cast. I think it very probable that the strata, with its fossil contents, between Cliff End and Walpen Chine, are the equiva lents of those west of the Chine at Shanklin, but as the beds east and west of Shanklin Point have not been investigated with the view of comparing them and their fossil contents with those of Atherfield, I must leave the matter an open question at present. Most of the fossils found in the concretions are not in a good state of preservation ; still, they can be identified Amongst the most prominent are the following : — ■ Ostrea sinuata Rostellaria Trigonia dædalea'i ,, alæformis In Perna vironstone Venus parva nodules. Thetis minor A grey, gritty seam, near the top of the cliff, encloses concretions of fossils which much resemble those in the Crackers, but differ in mineral composi tion, the shells chiefly being transformed into cal careous spar, and having a coating of white powder on their outsides. The following are a few of the most characteristic : — Rostellaria (spec.) Gervillia alæformis Trigonia dædalea ,, alæformis Ostrea carinata Gryphæa sinuata Scalaria (spec.) Ammonites Deshayesii Terebratula tamarindus And others. In blocks of dark coarse sand are found groups of Echini (spec), Terebratula sella (?•) elongata, and T. celtica (?). Between Shanklin Point and Luccombe, a short 

 P206  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000206.xml 
 TERTIARY SERIES. 150 End, nearly to Totlands Bay. As is usually the case, it varies greatly both in character and composition. As a general rule the Bembridge Limestone may be distinguished from the thick Upper Headon Limestones, as well as from those in the lower beds, by its greater whiteness and by its peculiar brecciated or tufaceous character, as well as by the fossils either being casts, or having their shells replaced by cale spar ; the Headon Limestones, on the contrary, being of a somewhat darker cream colour, more earthy and soft in composition, and having the shells of the limnæa and other fossils preserved. The total thick ness of these beds at Headon Hill is from fifteen to sixteen feet."* The band containing the characteristic fossils, Bulimus ellipticus, Helix globosis, Planorbis and others, furnishes better and more numerous specimens at Sconce than at any other locality. There are several quarries at Headon Hill from which fossils can be obtained, as well as from the fallen blocks lying on the shore. In some of the more white and chalky portions of these beds Bulimus ellipticus occurs with the shell entire ; but whatever their con dition, in point of size and numbers they far excel those found at Binstead and other localities. Possibly this may be accounted for by the supposition that when living the animals enjoyed more favourable conditions in this locality. Woodward, in his " Manual of the Mollusca," in speaking of the Bulimus says, "-Bulimus ovatus attains a length of six inches, and is sold in the market of Rio " ifor food). » M«m. Geol. Surv., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 72. 

 P52  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000052.xml 
 THE LOWER GREENSAND. 30 turtle remains, etc. It also contains crystals of selenite in its lower part, and nodules of septaria. The following miscellaneous fossils are found in the Upper bed : — Gervillia Forbesiana (sole- noides) Panopæa plicata ,, irregalaris Cypricardia nndulata Mactra Carteroni Corbula striatula Lima Cottaldina Grj-phæa sinuata Ammonites Deshayesii „ furcatus „ incerta Hemicardium Austeni Area Raulini „ inflatus Holaster complanatus „ Leopoldinus Serpula ? Nucula scapha Pinna Robinaldina Venus fenestrata „ (vermetus) polygonalis Nautilus saxbyii Turtle remains Vectensis Avicula lanceolata Judging from the distorted and waterworn appear ance of the larger fossils found in this bed, there is no doubt as to their having been derived from other strata, or subjected to great pressure from the over lying strata. Third Division (Second subdivision). The Crackers Rocks (about 85ft.) " The Crackers " is a local name, adopted, like many local names in other districts, to strata, etc., by geologists. They consist of two distinct zones, enclosed in a soft bed of sand and sandy clays. The Upper zone comprises, probably, the largest nodules, which are mostly conical and boulder-shaped. The two zones are divided into the Upper and Lower Crackers, and are from 15 to 20 feet apart. The Upper nodules, which lie about 1 to 4 feet below the top ofthe sand, consist of a coarse, compact, sandy 

 P126  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000126.xml 
 88 the upper greensand. fossils here are in situ, and are easily extracted. In the year 1851 several persons were engaged, by a firm of agricultural chemists, on the summit of St. Catherine's Down, in digging and sifting the beds of Fossiliferous and Chloritic Marl ; but either from the difficulty and the expense attending the labour, and the cost of conveyance, or other causes, the scheme was abandoned. In Mr. Nesbit's tables of Phosphoric Acid from St. Catherine's Down, the casts and nodules of the fossils are stated to contain from 40 to 50 per cent, of phos phate of lime. These beds contain numerous large spongoid bodies, together with nodules, resembling coprolites in form, containing from 15 to 28 per cent. of phosphate of lime. These last are very similar in composition to the bodies interspersed in the corres ponding stratum in the neighbourhood of Farnham, of which the following is an analysis, by J. T. Way. Esq. : Insoluble silicous matter ... *... 16*82 Soluble silica ... ... ... ... 12.92 Organic matter ... ... ... ... 2-29 Phosphoric Acid ... ... ... ... 0-78 Carbonic Acid ... ... ... ... 22-44 Lime 34'68 Magnesia ... ... ... ... ... j-oi Oxide of Iron and Alumina 6-29 The late Dr. Martin, no mean chemist, wrote in his work on the climate of the Undercliff: " In consequence of the phosphatic deposits existing in these beds, I cannot call the attention of the agriculturalists of the neighbourhood too strongly to the fact of so rich and valuable a manure lying within their reach, and the fertilizing property of its composition." 

 P89  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000089.xml 
 Blackgang Chine Frusri j Photograph br F tiUQ 'son, \Jen toon 

 P145  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000145.xml 
 THE CHALK MARL. 101 nodular chalk, with veins of a yellow and sometimes a green colour. Above this bed are the lower beds of the Upper Chalk, with small flints, resting upon the two beds of hard grey chalk, which is much used for building purposes in the neighbourhood, as an inspection of the houses and other buildings will show. Between the Upper and Lower Chalk in this pit is a seam of blackish friable rock ; it varies from an inch to two inches in thickness, and appears to consist of vegetable matter. This probably indicates a break in the deposits. Most of the pits at the base of the southern hills have been excavated in the Chalk Marl, and many of them con tain fossils of the usual character. The Chalk Marl and Grey Chalk is also met with along the shores of the Undercliff between Bonchurch and Rockenend, in fallen blocks, amongst the ruins of the strata which have fallen from the cliffs, or is noted where it occupies a position at the edges of the southern hills for the heavy crops of corn raised upon its soil. The following are the characteristic fossils of the Chalk Marl of the Isle of Wight ;— Nautilus elegans „ expansus Turrelites tubercula'-us Ammonites Sussexensis „ Mantelli Terebratula carnea ,, Bergerii „ costatus ,, billicata „ globosa Pholodomya decussata Natica Rostellaria Palatial teeth of Hybodus Teeth of several species of Shark Scaphites œqualis Hamites attenuatus ,, armatus Baculites anceps Ammonites Rhotomagensis Ammonites varians (four varieties) The first thirteen of these are termed the Cephalopoda, and (like the.Nautilus of the present day) are chambered 

 P90  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000090.xml 
  

 P8  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000008.xml 
 PRINTED BY G. HENRY BRITTAIN, STEAM PRINTER, 152, HIGH STREET, VENTNOR. 

 P151  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000151.xml 
 WHITE CHALK. 105 the lower to the upper strata, becoming nearly vertical at the junction with the Tertiary strata, where the beds become hard, and are traversed by layers of flints. The bands of flints are well displayed in the cliff sections between Sun Corner and the junction with the Tertiary strata in Alum Bay, where they appear as parallel layers, presenting a striking contrast, from their blackness, to the snowy aspect of the chalk. The rocks, called " The Needles," are enormous wedge-shaped masses of chalk standing out in the sea, which have become isolated from the great body of the chalk forming the mainland, by the wasting action of the waves upon the coast. Though conspicuous objects at a distance, on account of their position and snowy whiteness, they are of much larger dimensions than they seem to be when viewed from the mainland, and a base of 60 feet in diameter has been levelled on one of them for the foundations of the new light house, the site of which has been removed to it from High Down.* It is recorded that the Needles derive their name from a spiral shaped rock, 120 feet high, which became gradually undermined by the action of the sea, yielding at last, and falling with so great a force that the shock reverberated throughout the Island, and, it is said, was felt as far as Portsmouth. This took place in 1764. There is a small engraving of the rock on page 25 of Sir Richard Worsley's " History of the Island." The present Needles Lighthouse was erected by the Trinity Board, and its friendly warning light was first seen on the night of January ist, 1859. • Mem. Geological Survey, Bristow, Isle of Wight, pp. 28, 29, 

 P273  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000273.xml 
 APPENDIX. 215 the fold having been denuded away. The highest point of the western cliffs, Alum Bay, is 400 feet ; in Dorset, the headland at Handfast Point is 350 feet. Evidence of the eastern extension of the Chalk is afforded in the Isle of Purbeck by the existence of some detached masses similar to The Needles, the largest and most prominent of which have received the names of " Old Harry and His Wife." In the Isle of Purbeck the Chalk is overlain on the northern side by the beds of the Lower and Middle Eocene, and the formations to be found there below these are : — Upper Chalk Lower Chalk Chalk Marl Upper Greensand Gault Lower Greensand Weald Clay Hastings Sands Purbeck Beds Portland Stone and Sands Kinimeridge Clay On the eastern side of the Isle of Wight similar bold chalk cliffs, though of lesser height, are seen ; and their extension still further eastwards is very marked, especially when we look along the coast of the main! md and find the chalk appearing at Shoreham, some mil s distant. Hence, we can regard the chalk ridges of Purbeck and the Isle of Wight as being the southern border of the Tertiary Formations of the Hampshire Basin, which in the eastern direction seems to have been 

 P94  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000094.xml 
 68 THE LOWER GREENSAND. and the remaining strata to Atherfield Point, would require the time extended to obtain even a passing knowledge of the beds and their fossil contents. But it happens, in the majority of cases, that the visitor is limited to time, and makes what is not inaptly termed " a flying visit," often resulting in disappointment, as it is next to an impossibility for anyone either to gain a knowledge of the strata — even in a general way — or to collect their organic remains, as the chances are they may find a few of the most common, or, mayhap, some of the rare specimens, or they may return with an empty bag, which is often the case. Another obstacle is frequently presented by the red shingle being heaped up by the sea at the base of the cliffs, and covering the shore to a considerable depth. This shingle has been worn by the surge to such a degree of smoothness and mobility, that the foot sinks and slides at every step, progress being slow and laborious^ This, combined with the continual wasting and disin tegration of the sandy and clayey cliffs above, every rock containing fossils becomes covered up and hidden from the view. This statement may also be applied to the Crackers division. The Bays are all open to the south, the sun's rays being concentrated by reflection, so that the heat at the base of the cliffs in the after part of the day is reflected, and greatly increases the feeling of exhaustion. Even the keen collector, by the time Atherfield is reached (if not before) will begin to feel he has had enough, and will probably ascend at the Point, return ing on top of the cliff. 

 P219  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000219.xml 
 LATER TERTIARY DATE. 161 occurs at levels as high about that end of the Island as the top of the cliffs at Sandown, where there are three or four feet of it, more than ioo feet above the sea ; and Skinner's Hill, near Newchurch, is capped by what appears to be a fluviatile gravel at least no feet above the sea. These would seem to be deposits of a river now represented by the Eastern Yar, flowing more than a hundred feet above its present level, draining land to the seaward of the present cliffs of Sandown, and emptying itself into the sea, or estuary, at the place indicated by the shingle at the Foreland. The Mammalian Gravel at Fresh water are at a corresponding height to the chalk cliffs flanking the source of the Western Yar at the west end of the Island." In the extensive beds of gravel in the Downs above Ventnor, on the south-west of Wroxall Down, and on both sides of the road leading over the Downs to Wroxall are pits, varying in depth from 6 to 8 feet, and which have been worked for many years. The lower portion of these beds consists chiefly of black and grey flints, embedded in a reddish clay corresponding with the brick-earth of other parts. The higher portion con tains masses, six to eight feet thick, of flints in a more crystallised form than those found in the lower beds ; they are of a greyish colour and much pulverised. The only fossils that I have heard of as being found in these flints are Galerites albo-galerus, Ananchytes ovatus, Micraster cor-anguinum, sponges, such as Choanites and Ventriculites, and several branched species. From here the chalk has been entirely removed, but how the flints have become broken and splintered it is difficult to say. Their appearance would justify the supposition I 

 P184  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000184.xml 
 132 TERTIARY SERIES. wives say " burned dead," depositing an earthy ash which gave out a strong sulphurous smell. Although little or nothing of the Geology of the Isle of Wight was known in Sir Richard Worsley's time (1780), that author mentions these lignites on page 7 of his " History of the Island ": — " A stratum of coals runs through the ridge of hills before mentioned. It appears at the foot of Bembridge Cliff a little to the northward of the Point and somewhat above low water mark. It is seen on the side of Arreton Down, and at the west end of the Island, near WTarden Ledge, in the parish of Freshwater. This stratum has a vein of white sand and fullers earth lying on the north, and one of red ochre on the south side ; the upper part of it is about three feet wide, and descends in an oblique direction northward, to an uncertain depth. The late Sir Richard Worsley sunk a shaft for it, on his estate at Bembridge, but found the vein so thin that, fearing it would not answer the expense, he desisted from the undertaking. How it lies in other parts of the Island may perhaps be sometime or other worth the trial, as the coal is of good quality." "The lower part of this group is represented in Whitecliff Bay by green clayey sands with Cardita planicosta, Turritella imbricataria, Venus, etc. There are six zones of fossils altogether, and the Cardita is not only much less in size than the species found at Bracklesham, but is pierced by small boring shells, showing that the animals must have perished, and the shells have remained a considerable time at the bottom of the sea before they were covered by the sediment in which they are now buried. Lignite Clays succeed the above, with green clayey 

 P37  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000037.xml 
 DESCRIPTION OF THE STRATA. 23 25. Several hard sandstone beds crossing Ship Chine. 26. Red and tea-green variegated marls. 27. Harder band of marl. 28. Several hard sandstone bands crossing Ship Chine. 29. Red and tea-green variegated marls, with concretionary nodules ; no fossils seen. Total thickness (about) 453 feet. From Compton Bay to Atherfield 544 ,, Total (about) ... 997 feet. List of Fossils of the Wealden. Endogonites erosa, Mantell, Sandown Bay. The Pine Raft, at Brook Point. Lonchopteris Mantelli, Brook Point, and foot of Cowleaze Chine. Sphenopteris Mantelli, Brook Point. Zamia crassa, Mantell, Sandown Bay ; also fir cones. Clatharia Lyellii, Brook. Paludina elongata, \ Paludina fiuviorum, I Throughout. Paludina Sussexensis, j Unio Valdensis, Brook and Sudmore, on top of the cliff. Unio Parva, Sandown Bay. Cyclas, or Cyrena, in relief on slabs. Potamides carbonaris, on slabs, and in a seam of black clay near Atherfield Point, also at Compton Bay. Cyrena media, in limestone at Compton Bay. Ampullaria squamosa. Small Oysters, on slabs of limestone, throughout. Cyprides (3 species or varieties') in black shales, at Atherfield and Brook, in the concretions of Paludina fiuviorum, or Sussex marble, in Sandown Bay. Lepidotus Fittoni. 

 P117  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000117.xml 
 GORE CLIFF beneath ST CATHERINES DOWN showing the JUNCTION of GAULT and UPPER GREENSAND. 

 P261  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000261.xml 
 THE HUMAN PERIOD. 203 Much evidence exists to show that other parts of the Island were likewise inhabited by man. The Rev. E. Kell discovered the remains of the sites of the ancient British villages, Gallibury and Rowborough. They lie about four miles south-west of Newport, and are reached by a lane, branching from the high road that leads to Shorwell, from Rowborough Farm. He gives a description of them and a ground plan, with a list of the remains found, in an appendix to Davenport's " Garden Tsie." He also gives the following statement respecting the common occurrence of ancient burial places: "Not only are the barrows of the ancient Britons numerous in the centre of the Isle of Wight, but they are to be found from Bembridge Down on the east, to Headon Hills on the west, and from West Cowes to the extreme south, also on the Downs between Ventnor and Shanklin, and some remains of mounds on the Down between Ventnor and Week farm." A wall-fence almost covered with gorse and brambles extends for nearly half-a-mile towards the Park wall of Appuldurcombe. It is composed of large and small blocks of Upper Greensand, a stratum which occurs at least 100 feet below the fence. The builders are hardly likely to have gone such a distance for material ; it is probable they were already on the spot, having at one time formed a cairn, or burial ground. The stone known as the " Longstone," above the parish of Mottistone, has been noticed by many writers, none of whom agree as to its original use. Some con sider it to be only a landmark, others as defining a place for public meetings, and others again as part of a cromlech. The late Mr. H. Westropp thought it a " cat stone," or monumental stone, similar to the tall, 

 P79  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000079.xml 
 JUNCTION BED. 55 tell of something riddled through and through by fistulina. They speak eloquently of their stormy wanderings over the sea."* In the Isle of Wight, as at Folkestone, it is well represented, exactly in the same position, and contains the same coniferous petrified wood, and animal, as well as mineral remains, in the clusters of pyrites, which are deposited thickly on the floor of the Bay to the east of the Gas House at Ventnor. The bed in this locality contains but few organic remains, which, as elsewhere, appear to have been derived. Here, and at the west end of Mill Bay, are the only places in this neighbourhood where it can be examined, as it is hidden beneath the shore until, with the rise of the strata, it makes its appearance beneath the Gault on the edge of the Landslip at east end, where large masses of it fall over the cliffs. It then disappears until the cliffs near Shanklin are reached, where, as elsewhere, it frequently falls to the shore in large blocks. Amongst the fossils found in this neighbourhood are : Reptilian remains (chiefly vertebræ) Fossil coniferous wood, full Claws of Hopoloparia, longimanus (?) Mya truncata Venus (species) Inoceramus (species) Ammonites of teredo and tistulina borings — lignite Astacus (species) The thin seam of iron sandstone, or junction bed, and the associated pyrites, so completely obstruct the downward passage of water, that drainage is rendered indispensable whenever it happens to occur near the surface in cultivated grounds, and the springing * Mackie, in the " Geologist," pp. Si, March, 1S60. 

 P133  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000133.xml 
 THE chalk marl. 95 fore only been able to take measurements in separate localities, by tracing the zones from the basement bed or Fossiliferous Chalk Marl, up to the Grey Chalk. The Chalk Marl. Commencing at the base, we find the fossiliferous Chalk Marl, and resting upon it are two thin bands of hard impure limestone, full of black grains. These two beds have a united thickness of one foot. Thev indicate a change in the lithological character of the deposits below, and an approach to the Chalk above. The characteristic fossils are, Ammonites varians, Turrelites Bergeri, and Ostrea Carinata. They also con tain groups of organisms, cylindrical in form, and reticulated on their surfaces, which have been termed by Dr. Mantell " fossil corals," supposed to belong to the genus Mellepora.* The next seventeen feet consists of impure sandy limestone of a bluish grey and buff colour, hard and irregular bands apparently dividing it up into three beds. The fossils are, Ammonites Mantelli, A. varians, Ostrea vesicularis, Pecten Beaveri (which makes its first appearance here), Ammonites peramphts, a large Turrellite, T. Tuberculatus; but these latter two appear to have been derived, judging from their smooth and water worn appearance. Resting upon these are two thin beds of hard cream-coloured marl, the lowermost one varying in thickness from six inches to one foot, and containing nodular masses in an argillaceous deposit. • Fossils of the South Downs. 

 P142  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000142.xml 
 100 chalk formation. Ammonites varians have been collected. The Chalk Marl also occurs in a pit to the left of the path leading over the Down from Ventnor to Wroxall, opposite the lane leading to the village. Westward from thence, around the base of the Down, is another disused pit, in which all the Chalk Marl fossils before mentioned occur. At Morton, at the foot of Brading Down, near the Roman Villa, an extensive chalk quarry is worked for lime burning, and fossils from the upper beds of the Chalk Marl may sometimes be obtained of the workmen. A good section of these deposits is exposed here, at the mouth of the pit, showing the high angle to which the strata have been elevated. Further north, at Messly, a lane leads up from the village to a large chalk pit, in which the Lower Green sand, Gault, Upper Greensand and Chalk Marl are passed over in succession in the road. Sections of each are also exposed in a bank on the right, the strata having been cut through in forming the road. At the pit, the junction of the Grey with the Upper White Chalk is exposed, showing the position of the Chalk Rock. Several pits also occur along the foot of Arreton Down, all being worked into the Chalk Marl (in its upper part) and the Grey Chalk. Along the base of the central ridge, westward, in the road leading up from Mottistone to Shalcomb, the same uniformity occurs in the strata as at Messly, all the deposits before-mentioned occuring in the same order of suc cession, and sections of each can be seen on both sides of the road. The junction of the chalk with flints with the Chalk Rock is well exhibited in a pit at the end of Shalcomb Down, This is a band of hard 

 P85  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000085.xml 
 61 SANDR0CK spring. sea-bottom, until at last the Exogyra itself disappears, the bands exhibit traces of the influence of currents, and become more gravelly ; lignites, indicating a shallow sea, become common, form belts in the ferruginous sand, and in one place a bed in the wavy blue sand, at a time when much iron was deposited. The deposition of the peroxide of iron appears to have been connected with the disappearance of the majority of mollusca, though Trigonia, Thetis, and Venus occasionally occur in con siderable numbers. In the uppermost strata scarcely any animal remains are found, and everything appears to indicate a barren and shallow sea, previous to a new state of things, when a fresh series of clays (forming the Gault) being deposited, the majority of the animal forms which characterise the clays of the Lower Greensand disappear, and are replaced by distinct species, repre sentative in time.' "* Sand Rock Spring. On the road from Ventnor to Blackgang the visitor passes near the site of the once famous " Sand Rock Spring," which was discovered by the late Dr. Waterworth, of Newport, in the spring of 1809, and was then extensively used as a remedy in the debility ensuing on the Walcheren fever, and other diseases. The water was analysed by Dr. Marcet, * On the Section between Blackgang Chine and Atherfield Point. By Captain Ibbettson and Prof. E. Forbes.— See Jour. Geol. Soc, Vol. I., 1845. 

 P77  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000077.xml 
 BONCHURCH cove. 53 distance from Horse Ledge, a stratum of dark sand occurs, in which concretions of fossils are found, all transformed into hard bright yellow pyrites, the Gervillia anceps being the most prominent, which sometimes are found whole on the beach. Another stratum, about 3 or 4 feet thick, is sometimes laid bare, which contains vegetable remains in a state of lignite. From the Point at Shanklin to Luccombe Chine the strata are divided ; the lower or harder portion being separated from the upper, which has receded to some distance inland, forming a broad terrace by the talus, which has fallen over upon the harder portion, and still keeps receding, until Luccombe Chine is reached ; east of which the cliffs probably attain a height of from 200 to 250 feet. The strata between here and Shanklin is unfossiliferous. I have omitted a description of both Shanklin and Luccombe Chines ; they contain but little of interest to the geologist, except to show the power of small streams of water in excavating these gorges, or "Chines," as they are locally named, as descriptions of them are to be found in all the Guide Books. Between Shanklin and Bonchurch Cove the upper sections of Lower Greensand strata are repeated in the same way as between Blackgang and Rocken End, but with some variations, being less favourably disposed for examination. Between Luccombe and Bonchurch large masses of iron stone strew the shore, but— beyond a few pieces of partially carbonised wood — are unfossiliferous. Large masses of the junction bed and Gault are almost continually falling over the cliff below the Landslip to the shore, but con taining very few organic remains. 

 P183  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000183.xml 
 MIDDLE BAGSHOT SERIES. 131 Some leaves collected from these beds may be seen in the collection at the Literary Institute, at Ventnor ; but they are, as a rule, much deranged, and render description difficult. The Middle Bagshot beds in Whitecliff Bay correspond with those in Alum Bay. In February, 1873, during the prevalence of long-continued north-west winds, the floor of the former became totally denuded of its sand, and the ridges of harder strata extending seawards to low water mark, were in consequence laid bare. Amongst them, con spicuous by its blackness, was the lignite bed of the Bagshot series. The discovery, on being made known, created the utmost excitement amongst the inhabitants of the neighbouring towns and villages, and the little Ba}', ordinarily so quiet, was crowded with sightseers. So great was the excitement that one might have imagined the discovery of a second California. My statement, much doubted at the time by those who consulted me, that in spite of its strong resemblance to coal it was unlike the true coal of the carboniferous formation were proved by subsequent trial to be correct; and its comparative worthlessness as fuel, put the matter beyond dispute. Further research showed it to belong to the Bracklesham series, and to be the same lignite bed as occurs in Alum Bay. The seam of lignite was about 4ft. thick ; its vertical position prevented its extent from being known. Excavations were carried on with great vigour, until forbidden by the lord of the manor and the authorities at the Admiralty. Keen disappointment was experienced by the villagers and fishermen when they found that the " coal " was useless unless mixed with the true coal. Without the latter it only smouldered, or as house- 

 P276  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000276.xml 
 218 APPENDIX. gravels of the Island. For these animals to cross the sea is, of course, an impossibility, and the only other way in which they could reach the Island was by dry land. In rare cases we find the flint weapons fashioned by early man, and we may also conclude that such an arm of the sea as the Solent would, in his then early stage of civilization, have been an insurmountable barrier to his reaching the Island. It is not at all improbable that the greater part of the denudation of the Hampshire Tertiary strata and the complete severance of the Isle of Wight from the mainland, originally by a small rivulet and finally by an arm of the sea, has taken place since the advent of man. Carefully as we may consider this statement, it is extremely difficult to comprehend the amount of time required to perform so great a task, and it is only by a minute study of the workings of nature in the present that we can form any idea of the perfection of the methods by which, in course of ages, masses of strata, hundreds of feet thick and many miles in extent, have been disintegrated and carried away in the past. 

 P174  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000174.xml 
 TERTIARY SERIES 124 allowed certain Geologists to re-group the Tertiaries as follows* : — Eocene, Lower.— Woolwich and Reading Beds (Plastic Clays). London Clay (Bognor Beds). Part of Lower Bagshot Sands. Middle. — Bracklesham Beds. Alum Bay and Bournemouth Leaf Beds. Middle Bagshot, and part of Lower Bagshot Sands. Upper. — Barton Clay, and Upper Bagshot Beds. Oligocene. — Headon Beds. Osborne and St. Helen's Beds. Bembridge Beds. Hempstead Beds. Miocene. — Absent in England. Pliocene. — Not represented in the Isle of Wight. The Lower Eocene Strata of the Isle of Wight. Still continuing our upward course, we find a narrow band of Plastic Clay reposing in the Chalk, and accom panying it across the Island ; it has been worn and eroded by the action of the water, but in a much less degree than the surface of the Chalk. These coloured Plastic Clays extend to Woolwich, Reading, Newhaven * If the render desires to pursue the subject further I should recommend him to study the following papers. In any case they form a most valuable aid in working out the Tertiaries of our Island. Judi>, J. W. On the Oligocene Strata of the Hampshire Basin. Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, Vols. 36, 1S80, p. 137 ; 38, 1SS2, p. 4sil. Klei'isg, H.. and E. B. Tawnky. On the Beds of Headon Hill and Colwell Bay, in the Isle of Wight. Ibid, Vol. 37, 1881, p. S5. 

 P160  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000160.xml 
 112 CHALK FORMATION. Brading Down the strata is vertical, as shown by the line of flints. In one of these pits masses of Inocerami in a commi nuted state are found ; but the pits, generally speaking, are so nearly destitute of fossils as to make examination scarcely of interest, except it be to study the position of the beds. The only places where the Upper Chalk fossils can be collected in situ, is from the lower beds at Culver Cliff, and at Freshwater. At the latter place they can be reached by rowing round the base of the cliffs. Of the east end of the chalk range, which terminates in Culver Cliffs, Sir Henry Englefield writes: "The Chalk rises directly out of the sea, nearly perpendicular, to a great height, and being totally in shadow to the blue sky above, and the pellucid green of the sea at its foot, it has a sort of aærial tint."* At White Cliff Bay the Upper White Chalk ceases with the Belemitella Mucronata zone, which occupies a position in the north-west end of the Bay, immediately below the plastic clay of the adjoining Tertiary strata. This zone, in respect to its junction with the plastic clay, takes the same position at Alum Bay, and the characteristic fossil is to be found at both places, either in the fallen blocks on the shore, or at the former place, by ascending the talus at the foot of the cliff. Referring to the fossils of the cretaceous formation, Professor A. Geikie writes : " Foraminifera now reached an importance as rock-builders which they had never before attained. Their remains are abundant in the White Chalk of the Northern European Basin, and • " Picturesque Account of the Island." 1816, p. 78. 

 P269  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000269.xml 
 APPENDIX. delation of rtjc fficologo of the Isle of SHtgljt to that of iurbeefe. kfl^r-F we look at a geological map of the South f Yg of England, we observe that the Chalk Range *^*-V*t on tne west °f the Isle of Wight ends '■^tP abruptly with the few outlying masses known */ • v * as The Needles. Passing further west the coast of the Isle of Purbeck presents similar features ; and the Chalk has approximately the same high northern dip. At the extreme west, omitting a small exposure of Lower Eocene strata, we find the Chalk to be continuous with the mass of that of South Dorsetshire. The whole of this long stretch of chalk is the remaining portion of an anticlinal fold, the trough of the syncline being buried under the Tertiaries of the Hampshire Basin. The break between the mainland and the Isle of Wight and between Alum Bay and Purbeck indicates in all likelihood the bed of an ancient river, which, probably receiving as tributaries, amongst many others, the Medina, Western Yar, Avon, and Southampton Water, ran eastwards, and passing through the breach 

 P287  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000287.xml 
 ADDENDUM. 229 7- The Upper White Chalk and its Flints. — The former is represented by its characteristic fossils. The flints by the sponges, Choanites, Ventriculites, and polished specimens of the same. 8. The Tertiaries. — A case containing fossils of the different divisions, many of them presented by D. A. Hambrough, Esq., represent the various fossils of the London Clay, coloured sands of the Bracklesham series, the fossils of the Barton beds, the Headon series, the Bembridge series, and the Hempstead beds. 9- The Human Period. — A case containing numerous specimens of coarse and Roman pottery, with remains of ancient man, flint and stone imple- ments, bones and teeth of animals, etc. Besides these, another large wall case has lately been added by the Committee, which contains a general collection of both fossils and minerals. The fossils represent those from the upper and lower Silurian, Old and New Red Sandstone, the Coal Measures and Lias, and were presented by the Rev. C. H. Maiden. 10. A valuable and unique mahogany cabinet, containing specimens of British and foreign Lepidoptera, with other insects. Presented by the Rev. Cubit. 

 P143  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000143.xml 
 FOSSILS from the CHALK MARL. cJaw ot a fish with. Tecik. in siiu Scaphites sinaius. J^alæocorystes Tooth of Pluchodus p-olyaurus- Toclk of Shark s lamnaj V'-^r. ..■■■TU-"' *>ii^*.V* JPalœocorysies. Taiceocorysies. (Side) JVautilus expansus? 

 P123  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000123.xml 
 FOSSiLFEROUS MARL. AAAaulilu.il exjiansus. Pleuroiomaria. (cirrus) lurrilites Morrisiania.. Peelerc as per. 

 P2  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000002.xml 
  

 P163  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000163.xml 
 WHITE CHALK. 115 The following is a stratigraphical section of the Chalk Marl up to 60 feet approximately, with the characteristic fossils of each zone, in ascending order. For a general description and measurement of the Chalk of the Island I have appended an extract from a paper by a French geologist. The measurements are taken from the central ridge. KEE1'. Ammonites navieularis zone, Chalk more white and laminated. Fossils scarce, much scattered. Two zones containing Holaster planus, Scaphites striatus 4 Turrelites costatus zone, Ammonites rhotoma- 10 gensis A hand containing small Baculites, —ith Ammonites vai-ians Turrelites undulatus zone, Nautilus radiatus Turrelites Wiesti zone, Ammonites species Ammonites varians zone, numerous Ammonites, 14 4 A. Reneviere Ammonites Falcatus zone, Ammonites Mantelli, Ammonites varians, Scaphites striatus Turrelites Tubereulatus zone, Ammonite Mantelli •_> 18 Turrelites Bergeri zone, Ammonites, Millipora, Ostrea carinata 62 Basement bed, Turrelites Morrisiana in the fossiliferous marl, Pecten asper Chloritic marl, Pecten costatus, P. orbicularis Chert beds, Upper Greensand 

 P237  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000237.xml 
 OUTLIERS. 179 present ; whilst the almost universal confluence of the minor valleys, and their final terminations in some main trunk conducting to the sea, proclaim to have been due to atmospheric waters. Those excavates in the chalk beds have a less pronounced incline and a greater regularity, which is accounted for by the uniform texture of the chalk itself. The chief of these valleys is that which extends from Brixton to Sandown, cutting off the southern chalk hills from the range which extends across the centre of the Island. Conjecture must take the place of knowledge as to what has become of the immense mass of missing strata, consisting of the Lower Greensand, Gault, Upper Greensand, and the whole of the chalk deposit, which probably averaged some miles in width, and upwards of a thousand feet in thickness. It has dis appeared by the combined forces of upheaval and denudation, leaving the surface of the Island in its present form. The same causes have produced many instances of isolated masses, or " outliers," as they are called, of which the most important occur in the neighbourhood of Godshill. They exhibit the same stratification, and are completely detached from the strata of which they once formed a e&3tratt©iis portion. Between Godshill and Sheepwash Farm stands a large, isolated, turf covered mound, rounded and weather-worn ; it is from 50 to 60 feet high, and its detached position is entirely due to the action of rain and rivers. Godshill Church stands upon an elevation consisting of Lower Greensand, and forms a prominent figure in the landscape ; it can be seen from a distance of 

 P203  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000203.xml 
 BEMBRIDGE SERIES. 147 exposed and measured by the Survey officers. They are usually much concealed by small land-slips. They seem to contain many fossils of the same genera and species, common to the later Tertiaries. It is probable that the wasting away of the Clays causes the Lime stones to give way from loss of support, and the general wreck of the strata hides its original arrangement. Upper Eocene. The Bembridge Series. The classification proposed for this series by Prof. Forbes, in 1856, is still retained. He takes them in descending order, as follows : — 1. Upper Bembridge Marls. 2. Lower ,, ,, 3. Bembridge Oyster Bed. 4. „ Limestone Bed. These strata are most important. In the introduc tion to Prof. Forbes' Memoir, he states : — "All geologists without exception who have com pared the section at Whitecliff Bay, at the east end of the Island, with that of Headon, in the west, have regarded the Fluvio-marine series in the former place as the equivalent of that in the latter. No one seems to have suspected that the Fluvio-marine beds at Whitecliff were in considerable part superior to those of Headon Hill." And he further supple ments this note by two diagram sections in illustration. 

 P165  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000165.xml 
 UPPER CHALK. Anan.ch.ules ovahxs Ddi.cra.ster Coranguinum Parasimilia Centra/e J^Laqiosioma s/>lnosa. Galeriles Allo-oalerus 

 P176  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000176.xml 
  

 P259  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000259.xml 
 THE HUMAN PERIOD. 201 to belong to the Roman-British period, about a.d. 300, was found with the remains." Dr. Martin also mentions a huge antler, which from its size must once have graced the head of a red deer. A skull of the same animal was found in a quarry at Bonchurch ; and a bed i8in. in thickness, composed of cockle shells, was discovered in the crevice of a large rock. As no cockles could have been obtained nearer than Brading Haven (now enclosed from the sea), this doubtless once formed a refuse heap. The following discovery is a sequel to Dr. Martins : Some workmen digging within a distance of fifty yards, and in a direct line above the spot he mentions, found underneath a large rock they were removing the entire skeleton of a man. It was in a sitting posture, with the skull and spinal column fractured, and both legs broken. The man had evidently been crushed to death by the rock which also formed his monument. Again, about 20 yards in a line with the place indicated by Dr. Martin, the skeletons of a cow and calf were dis covered ; both were much crushed and broken. It is possible that both human and animal life had been destroyed by a sudden fall of strata, similar to that which often occurs along the Undercliff. The number of flint implements recorded as being found in the Island is small. Lockhart, in his guide, published in 1870, gives it as five. Since that date several more have been discovered in Gurnard Bay, near Cowes ; also on the shore at Ventnor a flint was found cut into a most curious shape. It was presented by the late Dr. Martin to the Ryde Museum, and is thus described by the late Mr. H. Westropp : — " The implement is of a tribranchial form, each arm of nearly 

 P298  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000298.xml 
 240 INDEX page Tertiary series . . 123 Terraces on the Downs 181 Theory of the formation of the Undercliff . 182 Ventnor, Calcareous Tuff and formation of recent lime- stone . . . 170 Ventnor, description of the Geological collection . 227 White Chalk, Central Ridge 102 Walpen sands and clays . 41 White Cliff Bay . 146 Wealden, description of the strata from Compton Bay to Brook Point . . 19 Wealden, Atherfield Point to Brook . . .21 page Sir Richard Worsley on dis- covery of coal . . 132 Strata of the Isle of Purbeck 215 Samphire gathering . .109 Steephill Castle . 84 Southern Downs, description of . . . .93 Shattered Flints . . 106 Sea Birds . . . 107 Superficial accumulations of later Tertiary date . 158 Sandrock Spring . . 61 Sandown Bay , . 49 Shanklin Cliffs and Point 52 Subærial beds St. Catherine's Down . . 164 Scaphites Group . . 38 Thorp, Captain, on ancient British Barrow on N unwell Down . . 204 G. Henry Brittain, Steam Printer, 152, High Street, Ventnor, I.W, 

 P23  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000023.xml 
 BROOK BAY. 9 — if we may judge from their water-worn appearance — they had drifted a long distance, and become em bedded in the mud, sand, and silt of the bed of the river. Referring to the waggon load of bones purchased by the late Dr. Ernest Wilkins (now in the Newport Museum), it appears they were all dug out within a limited area ; many of them probably belonged to the same animals. They consisted of thigh, and leg, and other long bones ; ribs, scapulæ, concave, convex, some flat, vertebræ, and pelvis bones. Measurement of a perfect thigh and leg (tibia) bone : — THIGH. 42 inches in circumference at the upper part. 25 ,, ,, at the shaft. 43 ,, ,, at the condyles. 45 „ in length. LEG BONE. 37 inches in circumference at the condyles. 17 ,, ,, at the shaft. 33 ,, ,, at the lower end. 39 „ in length. Many of these bones were perfect ; but a vague idea of the form and appearance of the original animals can be derived from the relics hitherto discovered. Notwithstanding, a close approximation is allowed to be arrived at, in the splendid models at the Crystal Palace, constructed by B. W. Hawkins, Esq., F.G.S. "And here it will, I trust, not be thought irrelevant if I relate a remarkable incident which took place at the Crystal Palace, during the construction of the celebrated models for the first time. Cards of in- 

 P100  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000100.xml 
  

 P135  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000135.xml 
 CHALK MARL. JVerocarcinus vroodwardii Ammonites Coupeii. _* Æf A. Coupeii. LBaculile Jlmm-orittes variant -—•*»*•_.»-='- \s_«aW Varieties ofA.Varians. Side View. 

 P264  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000264.xml 
 206 THE HUMAN PERIOD. its outer surface. On the left side of this cup I found a human skull, the jaw and splendid teeth of which touched the rim of the cup, and on the right side of the skull, above the ear, a wedge-shaped hole, 2 inches long, and nearly half an inch wide, cleanly cut in the bone, as if by a sharp weapon. " Upon further removing the earth, I laid bare the skeleton of a well-grown man, apparently more than 6 feet high, and buried in a sitting position. Most of the ribs and other small bones, together with a portion of the jaw, had crumbled away, the body being so placed and doubled up, as to bring the knees level with the chest. This fact suggests the idea that it is the grave of an ancient Briton. Close under the jaw-s I found a flint flake, corresponding with the shape of the hole in the skull, and which, I consider, might have caused the death wound, having, as it were, fallen out of the skull as the body mouldered away. The skeleton lay or sat east and west. I could not discover any remnant of metal of any description. On either side of the skeleton were two smooth stones, the size and shape of an egg ; one a flint, the other a shore pebble. " One of my labourers, an experienced man in measurements, computed, with myself, that the amount of flints over this grave could not be less than one hundred tons in one compact mass ! I excavated in various directions of this barrow, but could only find the one skeleton." It seems to be the general opinion that the Roman Villas discovered late in the present century, one at Gurnet and the other at Carisbrooke, as well as the vast remains at Morton, near Brading, were destroyed 

 P284  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000284.xml 
 I 226 ADDENDUM. of the Island. The whole forms a collection of an i'-.teresting and instructive character, both to the student and the general public, and will well repay a visit. 

 P173  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000173.xml 
 &\)t ŒYrtiarg Series. Lucifer. What thy world is, thon see'st, But cinst not comprehend the shadow of That which it was. — Byron. jV^j^r^y/ HE arrangement of the beds of the Tertiary n rilfa Formations, as exposed from Alum Bay to ir^*k/r* Sconce, are most favourable for examination, y^u'{\ being first horizontal, then tilting up suddenly P$-a within a few hundred yards of the Chalk, and finally becoming quite vertical. The equivalents of the same deposits in White Cliff Bay are mostly vertical, and much obscured by vegetation. These deposits constitute a series of formations, which may be said to link the present with the past ; the more ancient Tertiary beds containing organic remains related to the secondary formations, while the more recent include many existing species of animals and plants, associated with forms now extinct. In treating of these Tertiary beds I have followed Lyell's classification, but more recent research has 

 P253  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000253.xml 
 Wvt luman $rrtou. Caix. And those enormous creatures, Phantoms inferior in intelligence (At least so seeming) to the things we have pass'd Resembling* somewhat the wild habitants Of the deep woods of earth, the hu^est which Boar nightly in the forest, but ten-fold In mai^nitude and terror ; taller than The eherub-gu;irded walls of Eden, with Eyes flashing like tbe fiery swords which fence them, And tusks projecting* like the trees stripp'd of Their bark and branches— what were they ? Lucifer. That which The Mammoth is in thy world ;— but these lie By myriads underneath its surface. — Byron. MMONG other evidences that the Isle of Wight was at one time inhabited by a rude and primitive people, are the numerous refuse ' >ifeZ heaps, " Kitchen Middens," as they are •-r-c al *~***- called, which have been discovered during excavations of the Undercliff for building and other purposes. One of these refuse heaps was formerly to be traced up the stream leading from the shore to near the old Church at Bonchurch. The frequent falling away of the soil which formed its banks exposed an underlying layer containing large quantities of Patella vulgata (limpet), Litorina littorea (winkle), with numerous bones of animals, including those of the horse, ox, deer, rabbit, hare, and — on the authority of the late Dr. Martin — the wild boar and Bos brimogenus. The course of the stream has been diverted by its present owner into another channel, and the land drained and planted with trees ; but this layer of bones and shells can still be seen when digging in the old Churchyard. It occurs at a depth of some feet below the surface, which is composed of a thick stratum of 

 P136  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000136.xml 
  

 P62  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000062.xml 
 38 the lower greensand. The lower 8 or 10 feet consists of brown sand and sandstones, with oolitic grains of iron ore. Pinna Robinaldina is often met with in coarse sand at the bottom, whilst the zones of the oysters, which are sometimes of very large size, lie on the shore, and in detached blocks ; but many of them lie thickly on shelves of the strata, which have been laid bare by the incursions of the sea, associated with ostrea carinata, singly, and in groups, with corallines and serpula, form ing the remains of an ancient oyster bed, which also contains : — Lonchopteris Mantelli Siphodictyon gracile Chisma Ostrea retusa Pecten orbicularis ,, interstriatus ,. striato-costatns Brissus Panopæa plicata Trigonia rudis Pinna Robinaldina Hinnites Leymerii Anomia cowvexa Terebratula sella „ sulcifera Inoceramus Neocomiensis Gryphæa sinuata Ostrea Leymerii „ carinata Serpnla plexus „ prionota j „ antiquata Fifth Division. The Scaphites Group (50 feet 4 inches). The nodules — in layers, containing Scaphites Gigas and Scaphites Hilsii — are about two feet in thickness, and are succeeded in ascending order by 27 feet of greenish sand. The group may be divided into three beds, the lowest of which is brown and ferruginous coloured sand, twenty feet thick, containing large 

 P147  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000147.xml 
 l,C7ialtc. 2, U/xper Greensand. 3, Gault. 4; Lower Greensand 

 P267  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000267.xml 
 THE HUMAN PERIOD. 209 or five feet in height. They have an oval hole to creep in at. The fire is built in a small excavation in the middle of the hut. The floor is of clay, which has the appearance of being well kneaded. The usual accom paniment of a hut is a conical pile of mussel and limpet shells opposite the door, nearly as large as the hut itself." Substitute a floor of rough flint, and stones such as occur in the pits of Gallibury and Rowborough for that of clay, and add the remains found above Steephill Castle with those in the midden heaps, and the resem blance between the old savage tribes of the Island and those of the present day in Tierra del Fuego is close. The different contents of the midden-heaps divide them into distinct eras ; those of absolute barbarism would scarcely contain a specimen of pottery, or, if found, would be of the coarsest description, while those of later date show unmistakable signs of civilization and yield, as in the remains above Steephill Castle, abundant pottery — black, ornamental, and Samian, or red ware. A vase of this latter, nearly intact, and a hair-pin, are, with other Roman relics, in a case at the Ventnor Literary Institute. The two nations, the conquering and the conquered, have long since ceased to live as they lived then side by side. Time has worked its changes. Rome, once mistress of the world, great in her conquests, unrivalled in her arts and sciences, is now scarcely more than a name ; while rude, unlettered Britain has gained an Empire upon which the sun never sets, and a position of wealth and influence rarely attained in the history of nations. " However humiliating it may be to our pride, we must acknowledge that in the earliest, period of his o 

 P121  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000121.xml 
 85 VENTNOR RAILWAY STATION. vertical position, and stopped short. One huge mass has thus fell to the shore in Mill Bay, and has remained in an upright position, in the same order of stratifica tion as when deposited, reaching its present position (beneath the Parsonage House) intact. An enormous mass of rock overhangs the road near St. Catherine's Church, to which has been given the name of Racks Corner, probably a corruption of Rocks Corner. It is not only to the contour of the Upper Green sand of the Undercliff for its scenery and sheltered position we are indebted, but also to its economic excellence for road making and building material. Indeed, most of the houses in Ventnor, Bonchurch, St Lawrence, and Niton, to which may be added the two Churches at Ventnor, and the new Church at Bonchurch, are built with it, as also that of St. Lawrence. The upper 24 feet of Chert furnishes a good road material ; the Sandstone beds provide the building material ; the Freestone can be sawn and cut into quoins and mullions. Such is the excellence of this stone that Steephill Castle is decorated with grotesque corbels over its doors and windows carved out of it. A good section of the Upper Greensand is exposed at the Railway Station at Ventnor (once a quarry, where the strata are in situ down the 4ft. bed of Freestone. The tunnel commences on a level with this, and has been driven through it and the beds below, emerging upon the Gault at Wroxall, which shews that the strata here dip considerably to the North. Near St. Boniface House a road leads on the top of the cliff to Upper Bonchurch and Shanklin, by the high road around the Valley of Luccombe. This walk 

 P226  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000226.xml 
 1 68 TERTIARY SERIES. of iron. Of the nuts the pericarp only is preserved, but these may be obtained in large quantities. Prof. Webster, in a letter to Sir Henry Englefield states : — " It was near this place (Compton Chine) that I had been informed fossil fruits had been found in great abundance, and which were vulgarly called ' Noah's nuts.' I made it a point of endeavouring to see them in situ. Near the top of the cliff lie numerous trunks of trees, which, however, were not lodged in the undisturbed strata, but buried 8 or 10 feet under sand and gravel. Many of them were a foot or two in diameter, and ten or twelve feet in length ; their substance was very soft, but their forms and lignous fibre were quite distinct. Round them were a con siderable quantity of small nuts, that appeared similar to those of the hazel." " The sand based upon the Wealden red mottled clay, contains numerous hazel-nuts (called ' Noah's nuts ' by the people of the Island) and the remains of beetles mixed with matted fragments of the twigs and branches of trees. The latter, which are sometimes coated with phosphate of iron, retain their original shapes and general appearance, and are saturated with water, which on evaporation leaves a light shrivelled substance behind. The largest fragments, when first found, do not exceed two or three inches in diameter."* The tree remains at Brook Point are of Wealden age, not of the same age as those just quoted. They are much larger, and are completely mineralised by silica and pyrites into a hard black stone, susceptible of polish. The remains of buried trees can be seen • Mem. Geol. Surv., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 100. 

 P278  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000278.xml 
 220 ADDENDUM. " The primæval river is not represented by any existing stream. Its course can only be guessed at as having probably been eastward ; its extent is unknown ; its borders, its lakes, and where it met the sea of the period are not yet mapped. Its many streams made flood-banks and deltas, and some portion of its great estuary lay here, in what is now the south-east of England, where land and sea held very different out lines and relative levels from what at present exists."* In earlier times this river had brought down and deposited great quantities of sand, probably when it had a more rapid current and could carry along heavier detritus. Even along with these sands much clay was deposited, and it is in these earlier times that we first find traces ofthe gigantic Dinosauria (frightful lizards), so characteristic of the formation. It is not improbable that the freshwater limestones and clays of the Purbeck series are still earlier vestiges of the river and its work. To speculate on the old land drained by the many streams, which finally joined in one, is no easy matter, but from the nature of the vegetation we may infer that sands and clays predominated. It is certain that some felspathic and micaceous rocks also existed, for we find traces of them in the various deposits of the Wealden area. From the vegetation, we gather that the old land enjoyed a higher temperature than any part of modern Europe, and the immense Dinosauria could not have existed except under the exceptional and warm con ditions prevailing. Coniferous trees flourished in great abundance ; cycads and tree-ferns luxuriated in the lower levels; in the deltaic plain and bordering the * Dixon, " Geology of Sussex," 2nd Edit., 1878, p. 133. 

 P70  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000070.xml 
 46 the lower greensand. which between these two points are formed of dark grey greenish sands, with thin bands of ferruginous grit, containing siphonia-like tubes, and, on exposure to the air and action of the sea, assuming a hollow cavernous appearance, from the wearing away of the softer portions. Thirteenth Division. Sands of Walpen and Blackgang Undercliff. (97 feet.) The commencement of this group is marked by a bed of loose white sand, with thin laminæ of clay, about 8ft. 6in. thick, which extends in the cliff as far as Walpen High Cliff, where it crops out on the surface of the ground. The remainder of the group consists of greenish and brown sand, seventy feet thick, succeeded by seven feet of coarse ferruginous sand, with rounded grains of iron ore in the lower half of the bed, and by twelve feet of alternating sand and clay. The following fossils are found in it : — Panopæa plicata ,, mandibula Corbula striatula Lingula truncata Fourteenth Division. The Ferruginous Sands of Blackgang Chine. (20 feet 6 inches.) These sands rise from the shore between Rocken End and Blackgang Chine, and form the uppermost fossiliferous group of the Lower Greensand formation. They are composed of brown and yellow sand, with layers of ferruginous concretions, and, in the Upper 

 P213  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000213.xml 
 hempstead series. 155 " The Hempstead series was subdivided into four distinct groups by Professor Forbes, viz. : — 1. Corbula Beds, of marine origin ... 15ft. 2. Upper) [40ft. 3. Middle I Freshwater and estuary marls-! 50ft. 4. Lower J (65ft. 170ft. " The Lower Freshwater and Estuary Marls may be distinguished by the presence of Melania muricata and Melanopsis carinata."* A stratum named the " Black Band " is marked by the " first appearance of a new series of fossils, of which Rissoa Chastelii is the first conspicuous represen tative," coupled with the disappearance of others. " It consists of nearly two feet of firm carbonaceous laminated clays, abounding in fossils. There are Paludina lenta, very numerous ; Rissoa Chastelii major, scarce ; Melanopsis carinata; Limnæa ; Planorbis obtusus, of large size ; a peculiar small Cyclas (C. Bristowii) which I have not met with elsewhere, and fish vertebræ. Impressions of the linear leaves of gramineous plants, occasionally large seed vessels, Gvogonites, and Chara medicaginula are found in it, and lumps of lignite. At its base is found a seam of Unio, containing well preserved specimens It appears to me, 1 a careful re-examination of this particular bed, that the Black Band does not offer any decided proof of the existence of a terrestial surface ; that is, a break in the strata denoting the commencement of a new • Mem. Geol. Surv., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 90. 

 P21  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000021.xml 
 ORGANIC REMAINS 7 gritty sandstone, situated near the top of the cliff, will be found the large mussel of the period, the Unio Valdensis ; they are also to be found on the shore, but often water-worn, and sometimes thickly incorporated with the matrix. Many of the bones are water-worn, through having been exposed to the abrading action of the currents of the great river, before becoming deposited in its bed ; this result is due also to the wash of the sea. They are thereby rendered valueless for teaching purposes. The bones, when found in situ, are generally abraded, having been transported from probably long distances in the bed of the river, of which the Wealden is the delta. Those found in the clays are commonly less injured, and are preserved by the plastic material with which they are enveloped. The bones are chiefly of a jet black, and strongly impregnated with iron, especially those in Brook Bay, which are permeated with pyrites. Groups of brilliant crystals of this mineral often invest the outer surface. The late Dr. Wilkins, of Newport, purchased in 1854, a wagon load of bones, of gigantic size, for the museum at Newport, most of them being dug from the strand. For a fuller description of these and others the reader is referred to page 9 of this chapter. Journeying along the shore from Blackgang, beneath the cliffs of the Lower Greensand deposits, until the Point at Atherfield is reached, westward of which a remarkable change in the earth's history is revealed ; and from the series of marine strata just passed, we are at once introduced to a series of deposits consisting of clays, lime, and sandstones of fluviatile, or river origin. The red and yellow cliffs which com- 

 P56  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000056.xml 
 34 THE LOWER GREENSAND. Solecurtus Warbnrtoni Cardium Cornueliannm Actæon albensis (Tornatella) Natica rotundata Cerithium Neooomiense „ turriculatum Ibbetsoni Nucula scapha Mytilns æqnalis Lucina globiformis Venus Vectensis Pecten interstriatus Anomia radiata Dentalium cylindricum Ammonites Deshayesii ,, Cornuelianus „ Hambrovii „ furcatus „ convexa The next section (2) may probably be considered that from which the group derives its name. It is composed of coarse grey or brown sand, including two ranges of nodules, in consequence of which Dr. Fitton has further subdivided it into two portions. The following is a list found in the lower range of the characteristic fossils of nodules : — Panopæa plicata Solecurtus Warbnrtoni Corbula striatula Mytilns æqualis Pecten quinquecostatus Gryphæa harpa Rostellaria glabra Pterocera Fittoni Tellina Carteroni (angulata) ,, Vectiana Cardium Ibbetsoni ,, Moreausiana ,, Retnsa „ Cornnelianum „ subhillanum „ peregrinosum Area Raulini Cerithium Lallierianum ,, turriculatum ,, Neocomiensis ,, attenuatnm ,, Phillipsii ,, Clementinnm „ secuns „ Cornueliana Trigonia caudata Lucina Dupiniana Pinna Robinaldina Venus Orbigniana „ Vectensis Thetis minor Dentalium cylindricum Actæon albensis (Tornatella) Natica rotundata ,, Cornueliana Rostellaria Robinaldina ,, glabra Ammonites Deshayesii „ Hambrovii Mithracites Vectensis Avicula ephemera Gervillia anceps (aviculoides) „ linguloides „ alæformis 

 P107  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000107.xml 
 SECOND DIVISION. 75 Chine. It was from one of these that Mr. Saxby obtained his specimen of Hopoloparia Saxbyi (a Lobster) on the shore at Ventnor. This fossil is by no means confined to these lower beds, but ranges through this and the next division also. This division contains the following fossils : — Ammonites rostratus ,, inflatus ,, (species) Panopæa plicata Trigonia alæformis Pecten orbicularis Cardium Gentianum Ostrea conica Vermicularia Serpula antiquata Holaster fossarius Siphonia Websteri Hopoloparia Saxbyi Chelonian remains Inocerami ,, quinquecostatus Cucullæa glabra Mytilus lanceolatus Rhynchonella latissimus ,, with Panopæa Second Division. This division I propose to name the Sandstone and Rag-Beds : it ranges from the before-mentioned series up to the Firestone. The first is an irregular stratified bed of hard blue chert, with nodules of the same. Some of the detached nodules are full of Serpula antiquata, with other fossils ; Ammonites rostratus, and a large Ammonite with a rounded back ; Pecten orbicularis, etc. Resting upon this band is a bed of compact reddish-brown sandstone, ten feet thick, streaked with black lines, which contains many fossils in the lower three or four feet ; A mmonites rostratus, with other unnamed Ammonites. Panopæa is also com mon. This is succeeded by another bed of Rag of one foot ; and ten feet of sandstone of the same litho- 

 P36  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000036.xml 
 22 WEALDEN FORMATION, 5. Dark grey shales ; Cypris spinosa ? C. Valdensis. Limestone parting ; bones, teeth, occasional oysters ; much pyrites, £ inch. 6. Dark grey shales with occasional thin bands of sandstone. Cypris Valdensis, C. spinosa, Paulidina elongata. 7. Septarian-like yellow sandy limestone ; oysters 1 to 2 inches. 8. Dark shales, with cypris as above ; minute Anoden-like bivalves, 1 foot 9 inches. 9. Sandy septarian-like limestone band ; large rounded Cyrena, 2 inches. 10. Dark shales and marls, crumbling in places, and with greenish confervoid markings in patches. Cypris Valdensis and C. tuberculata below. 11. Cyclas and bone-band, with shales and thin band of limestone. 12. Paper shales, with thin sandy bands. 13. Dark paper shales: harder band, with band of cyclas. 14. Limestone 1 inch ; dry surface markings on under side. 15. Grey paper shales, paler and more clayey than those above ; large cyclas, smooth cypris ; a little lignite and nodules of pyrites. 16. Yellow sandy beds. Paludina and Cypris spinigera (?) on a thin band of pyrites. 17. Grey shales, becoming more sandy, with occa- sional thin bands of yellow sand. 18. Harder sandy layers, with Lonchopteris Mantelli, 19. Sandy and carbonaceous in places. 20. Marls, often red and blue, with traces of vegetables in nodular concretions ; no fossils observed. 21. These beds come to the base of the cliff about one chain west of Cowleaze Chine, with waving bands of thin irregular and light coloured sandstone, containing seams and patches of red marl. 22. Red sandstone, crossing Barnes' Chine. 23. Hard sandy bed, with red marl. 24. Harder bands of marl. 

 P171  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000171.xml 
 CLAY WITH FLINTS. 121 are sometimes found on the shore, and are known as Mammilated Chalcedony, on account of their bubble shaped exterior, giving them a rounded or breast-shaped appearance. The inner surfaces of some specimens, after being cut and polished, bear marks resembling those of a hammer on new copper ; in this condition it is called " Hammered Chalcedony." The black flints contain chalcedony, the white flints none. The flints as seen at Culver Cliff and Sandown Bay end occur in place near the lower part of the White Chalk, and contain many different forms of silicified sponge ; the black flints occupy a position in the uppermost division of the White Chalk, and yield but few fossils. The sponges are not always easily detected, except when of a reddish colour from the infiltration of iron, otherwise they have become to a great extent incor porated with the investing flint. At Sandown is a vast accumulation of pebbles composed of broken flints, rounded by the action of the sea, repeated falls of debris making continual additions. The mass is prevented from drifting to a greater distance than about half-a-mile to the east along the shore by Culver Cliff, which at its eastern point puts far into the sea, and acts as a barrier. Sandown Bay may also be mentioned as a rich field for pebble collectors. The noble headland of Culver can only be seen to advantage from the sea, from which also the arrange ment of the successive strata is much more apparent than when viewed from the shore. The beautiful mutations of the cliffs will be seen to pass from the dull browm of the Wealden to the red colour of the Lower Greensand, thence from the dark grey of the Gault and Upper Greensand, and the dull drab beds 

 P38  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000038.xml 
 24 wealden formation. Reptiles. Cetiosamus brevis. Owen. Cetiosaurus Bucklandi. Owen. Streptospondylus major. Owen. Hylaosaurus. Iguanodon Mantelli. Meyer. Plesiosaurus. Owen. A few vertebræ. Wilkins. Ichthyosaurus vertebræ. Wilkins Megalosaurus. Wilkins. Crocodilian remains. Pterodactyle. Fox (?). Chelonian carapace, Sandown Bay. Carapace of Turtle, in septaria, from " Tie Pits," west of Atherfield Point. In possession of the Rev. P. B. Brodie, Warwick. 

 P249  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000249.xml 
 SEA ENCROACHMENTS. 191 tends no doubt to equalise the temperature. To the invalid who has a taste for natural history this sheltered district and neighbourhood possesses an additional advantage. It is rich in varied and interesting plants ; indeed, the specimens of Natural History with which it abounds, offer abundant inducements to exercise and healthful occupation to the cultivators of this delight ful science." In addition to the absorption of the sun's heat by the cliffs, and the gradual shelving-in form of the terrace composed of the ruins of the once solid strata which have fallen from above, which in some places extends from a great height, and at considerable dis tance from the shore, has had the effect of " allowing the sun's rays to fall at a less oblique angle during the winter, than they would upon a plain surface, and con sequently favours the receipt of a greater amount of heat." (Dr. Martin). Similar encroachments of the sea are observed in the Sandown district. The advance of the sea upon the marshes and the lower part of the town, is only kept in check by an artificial mound of earth and pebbles, supported and protected by groynes. In the year 1825, a heavy storm broke through this barrier, and the sea joining the river Yar, converted Bembridge, for the time, from a peninsular into an island. I have written a great deal about the denudation of the southern side of the Island, and will now quote from Dr. Wilkin's remarks in the " Garden Isle " to show that the widening of the Solent, especially on the Isle of Wight side, proceeds at a rate, sufficiently rapid to be noticeable in a lifetime. Dr. Wilkins writes : " In my own recollection acres 

 P270  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000270.xml 
 212 APPENDIX. in the Chalk between Eastbourne and Culver Cliff, emptied itself into some larger river flowing in a westerly direction. In 1862, the Rev. W. Fox, of Brixton, Isle of Wight a well-known name throughout the Island, wrote as follows : — * " This chain of land [Dorset to the Needles] might, or might not, be so cleft in twain as to allow the rivers of Dorset and Wilts to find a passage through them to the main ocean. My opinion, however, is that they had no such outlet : but that, at that far distant period, the entire drainage of more than two counties — em bracing the rivers that join the sea at Poole and Christchurch — flowed through what is now called Christchurch Bay, down the Solent, and joined the sea at Spithead. According to this theory the Solent was at ' that time an estuary somewhat like the Southampton Water, having but one opening to the British Channel ; but of so much more importance than the latter as it was fed by a vastly greater flow of fresh water ; and it further supposes that the bed of the Solent was scooped out originally by a river, which from the extent of its drainage one may guess to have been little inferior to the Thames or Humber." He goes on to say that as soon as the sea had made a breach through the Dorset-Needles ridge, the Solent would lose its character as an estuary and assume that of a long narrow arm of the sea, and this would also convert the Isle of Wight from a peninsular into an island. Professor Rupert Jones has called especial attention to this subject in his paper on " Geology of the Kennet * " Geologist," 1862, p. 454, 

 P159  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000159.xml 
 WHITE CHALK. 111 infinitude of space, until touching faintly the line of the distant horizon, it appears to blend almost imper ceptibly with the sky. As has been stated above, the excavation of the caves is mainly due to the sea ; the upper portions of the cliffs being broken away sub sequently by the combined actions of the atmospheric forces, of which frost is the chief factor. The following quotation from Mr. Bristow's " Geology of the Isle of Wight " will assist the reader to form a better idea of the process of destruction which is continually in pro gress : " Besides the lines of bedding, the chalk is traversed by joints dividing it into large cubical masses. It is on account of the structure described above that the chalk cliffs on the sea-coast usually form steep and almost mural precipices, for when the action of the waves has undermined a portion of the cliffs to such an extent that the cohesion of the rock is insufficient to support its own weight, it gives way in the direction of the vertical joints, the line of fracture presenting a nearly plane surface which is almost at right angles to the bedding."* The white chalk, judging from the number of its disused pits, appears at one time to have been exten sively quarried. Many of them are now covered with the short turf characteristic of the Chalk Downs, and in one pit, on the north side of Arreton Down, an Ash has grown to an height of full 30 feet. The largest Upper Chalk pits in the Island are those of Downend (near Arreton) and Brading Down ; neither yield many fossils, though in Downend pit some few Echini, Spondyli, and sponges rarely occur. In the pits on * Mem. Geological Survey, 1862, p. 31. 

 P139  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000139.xml 
 TURRILITES from the LOWER CHALK & CHALK MARL T.UTicLvLatas. T. costahix Turrililes iuierculaius. 

 P105  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000105.xml 
 UPPER GREENSAND. T-rigoTtia. spinosa. Cardinal gentian ,; n CardiosJer spec Teclen orbicularis. lerehraiata snac. 2'ecten 

 P177  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000177.xml 
 LOWER EOCENE STRATA. 125 in Sussex, East and West Kent, Surrey. In the Isle of Wight, they are said to be unfossiliferous, with the exception of plants sparingly distributed. They appear to be made up of the deltritus of the Chalk, Upper Greensand and Gault, deposited in a state of silt, con sisting mainly of decomposed Chalk, and owe their varieties of color to the mixture of the above named strata, with probably the addition of infiltrations of iron. " In Alum Bay, the Plastic Clay is 84ft. thick, increasing till it reaches 163ft. in Whitecliff Bay" (Bristow). It is extensively used in the manufacture of bricks and pottery, hence its name given to it by Mr. Prestwich. Some time ago, in a deep cutting near Boscombe Down, an interesting section was exposed showing the junction between the •' PlasticClay " and the White Chalk. The formation following that of the Plastic Clay, consists of a brown Sandy Clay with Septaria, Sandstones and Clays, which were classified by the old geologists as the " Bognor Beds," on account of the Fossils having been identified with those of the Lower Eocene of the Isle of Wight. " The rocks at Bognor are evidently the ruins of a deposit once very extensive, and which, even within the memory of man formed a low line of cliffs along the coast ; at present a few groups of detached rocks, covered by the sea at high water, alone remain and the period is not far distant when these will be swept away by the action of the waves. These beds are decidedly analogous to the Calcaire Grossiard of Paris."* I have quoted this to show that there is hardly a doubt but that the Island once joined Sussex, and * Mantell, "Geology of the S.E. of England," p. 61. 

 P20  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000020.xml 
 6 WEALDEN FORMATION, Some of the slabs exhibit potamides, cyclas, and cyrena upon their surfaces ; and others, the teeth and bones of small fish, turtles, and their remains. The carapace of a turtle was found a little distance from Barnes', or Shepherd's Chine, about eighteen months ago, and is now in the Warwick museum. Slabs of the Freshwater limestone may be observed in the cliffs, at an accessible height, and specimens of the black and slate-coloured shale, between the thin layers of which cyprides are contained, which can be collected from the fallen masses on the shore. Between Brook Point and Brixton, masses of the remains of the limbs of pine trees occur. Most of them are partially car bonised, and are either silicified, or impregnated with calcareous matter, whilst many of the pieces are covered with coatings of bright glistening pyrites, the bark of which is transformed into a brittle carbonised mass, resembling coal. In the neighbourhood of Brook, many animal remains are found, the most prominent being the palatial, or crushing teeth, of the Lepidotus Mantelli, with its lozenge-shaped black enamelled scales, bearing a high polish. Between here and Atherfield Point, the bones of reptiles are periodically washed out of the cliffs by the sea, as well as teeth. of reptiles and fish. Many of these remains are to be found on the strand, at low water, when the sea recedes at times to a great distance, leaving the level clayey bottom exposed over a vast surface, laying bare (especially after a storm) the buried remains of the extinct animals. East of Barnes' Chine a bed of hard, grey, gritty sandstone occurs, much impregnated with iron, con taining Unios. At Sudmore, in a band of coarse, 

 P185  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000185.xml 
 FOSSILS of LONDON CLAY 

 P190  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000190.xml 
 136 TERTIARY SERIES Many of these fossils in Whitecliff Bay are very friable, probably owing to the loose texture of the soil in which they are embedded. They are found in better preservation in Alum Bay than in Whitecliff Bay, and still more perfect on the Hampshire coast. The beds crop out at Gunville, and at other places in the Island. At Gunville the clay is used for bricks. " The lower part of the Barton Clay is represented in Alum Bay by clays with crushed Turritella, Rostellaria rimosa, Voluta luctatrix, Fusus longavus, and Conus dormitor ; and above, by grey clays containing a hard bed of blue calcareous grit, weathering yellow, with Tellina, Actæon, Corbula Pisum, Pectunculus deletus, Nummulites variolarius, Calyptrœa trochiformis, Typhis pungens, Pecten reconditus, Pkorus agglutinans, Murex asper, Sauguinolaria compressa, Fusus pyrus, Crassatella sulcata, etc."* Upper Bagshot Sands. These sands are reputed to measure from 140 to 208 feet ; the lower 50ft. consisting of a yellow sand, succeeded by 60ft. of white sand. These white sands are remarkable for their purity, which renders them peculiarly suitable for the manufacture of glass. Excavations have been going on for many years, and digging the sands and loading the vessels at one time gave employment to a large number of labourers. A resident writing in 1795 states : " Our trade and commerce chiefly is dealing in corn and wool. There are other commodities, such as ' Copperas stones,' i.e., Pyrites, sulphurate of iron, which are gathered up in heaps on the sea shore, and sent to London for the * Mem. Geol. Surv., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 46-7. 

 P138  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000138.xml 
 98 chalk formation. The characteristic fossils of this bed are : — Ammonites Rhotomagensis Baculites Faujasii Tnrrelites costatus (com.) varians Scaphites striatus I Hamites attenuatns Unmitps attetniatus. About three or four feet above, two bands occur, consisting of an upper and lower, and are intercalated between the soft argillaceous material before described. They are about one foot to eighteen inches apart. The lowermost is composed of a hard buff-coloured material and contains but few fossils. The upper is more laminated, and contains — Scaphites striatus (com.) Ammonites Rhotomagensis Ammonites varians Holaster planus Above these fossiliferous zones, which are from fifty to sixty feet from the basement bed, the fossils become scanty, and many of the species named dis appear. As the strata approaches the Grey Chalk, its lithological character becomes changed and more laminated. The following fossils are most frequently met with : — Ammonites catinus Scaphites costatus Nautilus radiatus navicularis Sussexensis Pecten Beaverii 

 P236  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000236.xml 
 178 DENUDATION AND LANDSLIPS. Erosion, in many parts of the county around Newchurch, has produced many immature valleys and rounded knolls ; one of these valleys runs parallel with the north side of the village, leaving an outlying mound called Vinnicombe Hill. Keeping to the edge of the valley, we reach Horringford Railway Station, which stands on a slope of the Lower Greensand, its surface covered with a thick bed of flints. Whilst excavating here for ballast, during the con struction of the Sandown and Newport Railway, some ironstone concretions were dug up, containing casts of Venus and Thetis, similar to those which fall from the top of the cliff at Shanklin. St. Catherine's Down — almost the highest elevation in the Island — has been entirely denuded of its Upper White Chalk, and to a great extent of the grey, and has for a capping the remains of the Chalk Marl, with a few scattered flints as vestiges of the beds now swept away. Yet the Downs westward of St. Catherine's are capped and flanked with flints, and do not appear to have suffered to so great an extent from denudation ; and the high land of Dunnose contains a portion of the Upper White Chalk in its highest point, showing how unequally the forces of upheaval and denudation have worked throughout the southern range of the Downs. Although the strata in the southern range is nearly horizontal, the beds of chalk, wherever exposed are much dislocated, and traversed by fissures often con taining clay, and exhibit generally a ruined and crumbled condition. The central ridge is depressed in places, and cut transversely by valleys, indicating, perhaps, that their excavation originated under the action of greater volumes of water than we see at 

 P233  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000233.xml 
 RED BEACH. 175 the smaller fragments from place to place, until finally they might drift into the westerly current which sets in along the southern shores of the Island, and be thrown up into the bays of which I have already spoken. Again, the Tertiary and Chalk strata may have been covered with vast beds of flint gravel, similar to that on Headon Hill, and on the Downs on the southern side of the Island. It may be fairly assumed that the red gravel is derived from the chalk flints, as these constitute about 95 per cent, of the deposit. The transparent pebbles of veined quartz and chalcedony, in some specimens clear as crystal, in others bright yellow, amber, dark brown or bluish black, have all a like origin, and the organic remains are seen in the Choanites, or Siphonia of the chalk formation. Dr. Mantell, in his " Wonders of Geology," states : "The Choanite, called by some lapidaries 'Petrified sea-anemones,' bears a close resemblance to the recent Alcyonia. The Choanite is of a sub-cylindrical form, with root-like processes, and having a cavity in the centre, which is often filled with hard chalk." Small pebbles of pure transparent quartz, or rock crystal, are found in the red shingle along the southern shores of the Island, and are named " Isle of Wight diamonds." " These have probably been washed out of the Wealden strata, for pebbles identical in mineralo gical character occur in the grits of Tilgate Forest and Tunbridge Wells ; but the shingle contains other silicious pebbles which essentially differ from those of the chalk flints. Some of these are composed of a dark brown mottled jasper, and when cut and polished 

 P11  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000011.xml 
 V geologist. Some of the figured fossils are of my own collecting, others from the published writings of Mr. D. Sharpe and Professor Bell. I wish to express my thanks to Mr. Charles Ryan, who has most kindly given me his gratuitous help with the drawings of these fossils, and of some of the sections. My thanks are also due to Mr. Scott, the Ventnor Town-Surveyor, for the drawing of the section of the Upper and Lower Greensand, — in the measure ment and description of the strata and fossils of which I follow Mr. W. H. Fitton. I have had the assistance of Mr. Charles D. Sherborn in revising and preparing for the press that portion of the work extending from the Basement Bed of the Chalk to the Human Period. The kind permission of Dr. Woodward has enabled me to reprint my paper on the Upper Greensand, which appeared in the Geological Magazine for 1882 ; and from Mr. Charles Barrois' work, " La Cretacee Superieure " I have inserted some valuable notes res pecting the Chalk Formation. The fossils of the Upper Greensand were named by Mr. Etheridge. I would also express my indebtedness to Professor Thomas Wiltshire, for his advice and assistance, and for the loan of the blocks which appear in the letterpress. Let me hope that this work may be the means of further popularising a subject, the importance of which I feel strongly. 

 P272  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000272.xml 
 214 APPENDIX. and His Wife" on one hand, and The Needles on the other, are the still fading relics of this southern margin of the old estuary, now the Solent, and open to the sea throughout." Professor Jones has kindly pointed out to me, through a friend, the interesting comparison to be made between the Hampshire Basin and the Wealden area of Kent, Surrey, and Sussex. In the former, as stated above, the original configuration of the surface being synclinal has decided the flow of the river from the higher edges to the centre of the basin, where flowed a larger river, and received them as tributaries. In the case of the Wealden area, however, the beds having been anticlinal, the rivers have flowed from near the centre to the margins of the district. As the surface became gradually lowered by subærial denudation, these rivers deepened their beds, and now present the appearance of having cut through and across the encircling ridges of chalk, the relics of the original bed once probably continuous over all the area. A sketch-map, showing very clearly the distribution of these early rivers in prehistoric ages, is to be seen in a " Lecture on the Antiquity of Man," which was delivered by Professor Rupert Jones to the Croydon Microscopical Club in 1876,* in Boyd Dawkins' " Early Man in Britain,"! and elsewhere. Proofs of the further southern extensi* n of the Chalk in the Isle of Wight are to be traced in £ ;. Catherine's, Weeks, and Boniface Downs, the southern extension of * 8vo, London (Van Voorst), 1877. t Svo, London, 18S0, p. 150. 

 P268  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000268.xml 
 210 THE HUMAN PERIOD. existence man was scarcely distinguishable from the brute. The desire to supply his wants absorbed all his efforts, tended to one single aim, to obtain his daily food. All evidence tends to prove the original barbarous state of mankind; but the civilised man, like an upstart in the pride of his matured intellect, in the pride of his acquired position, ignores his base and low origin. Man, in the earliest stage of his development, like the helpless infant, was equally naked both as to body and mind, and like other animals was without speech, without experience of the past, and without knowledge of the future." We have traced the geological history of the Isle of Wight, from its earliest recorded period to the time when, as we have seen, it was first inhabited by man, and with our feet trespassing upon historic grounds, which is the domain of the archæologist rather than the geologist, bring this volume to a close. 

 P60  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000060.xml 
 36 THE LOWER GREENSAND. Thetis minor Lima semisulcata Gervillia linguloides „ Forbesiana ,, (species) Gryphæa semiplicata ? Anomia radiata Tornatella marginata Pecten quinquecostatus Astacus (portions of) Avicula lanceolata The fifth subdivision (5) contains moulds of Panopæa (mya) Mandibula, as also these fossils : — Panopæa plicata ,, irregularis Corbula striatula Hemicardium Ansteni Area Raulina Gervillia linguloides Lima (?) Pholadomya Martini Pecten orbicularis Gryphæa harpa Nucula antiquata „ scapha „ spathulata Venus Vectensis Ammonites Deshayesii Vermetus polygonalis Holaster complanatns Serpula polygonalis Cardium Raulinianum (?) The next stratum (6) is composed of a greyish sandy clay containing Astacoids, a species of crus tacean allied to the lobster ; also yields the following : — Panopæa plicata Pholadomya Martini Nucula spathulata Trigonia rudis Tellina ? (inœqwilis ?) Gryphæa harpa Nucula scapha Trigonia caudata Astacus Vectensis Meyeria Magna Mytilus æqualis Pinna Robinaldina Venus Vectensis Thetis minor ,, sinuata Anomia radiata Avicula depressa (?) Rostellaria Robinaldina Gervillia Forbesiana ,, linguloides Lima (species) Pecten orbicularis Ammonites Deshayesii Vermetus polygonalis Astarte numismalis ,, transversa Area exaltata (?) 

 P227  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000227.xml 
 st. Catherine's down. 169 along the base of the low cliffs on the shore between Watershute and Rocken End, and a bed of silt, con taining twigs and leaves of trees, was cut through in digging the foundations for St. Catherine's Lighthouse. At Binnel, near Old Park, trunks of trees have been sometimes exposed by the action of the sea, but are mostly hidden by the shingle and debris which are heaped at the base of the cliff. In digging the foun dations of the houses between Steephill and Ventnor, trunks of trees, embedded in a muddy silt intermixed with smooth, surface-worn boulders, were found, together with vegetable remains, and bones and teeth of the animals. The same stratum was traced beneath the houses in Ventnor during the process of well-boring and excavating for cellars. In some places the vegetable remains are from two to three feet in thickness. In a well-boring twelve or fourteen feet below the surface of the lower part of the High Street, large bones of animals, with trunks and branches of trees were found. These trees were stated to be Birch, Willow, Hazel, Alder and Ash. They re-appear in another well-boring at Aratrum Villa, with the addition of an abundance of hazel-nuts and brambles. The presence of water-worn boulders, associated with the peaty mass lying beneath the silt, and forming a sort of bog, suggests the idea of occasional floods being the agent which, destroying the animal and vegetable life of some old world land surface, carried them off and deposited them in their present resting place. A cluster of springs occur at Ventnor. These formed at one time a stream of sufficient force to drive a mill. No longer put to this use, it forms a waterfall near the Parsonage House, and from thence descends 

 P57  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000057.xml 
 CRACKERS ROCKS Triqcnia dcedalea. Asfacus Vectensis Mifliruciles Veitfensi. 'LMiihracdes Veciensi . (rervillia anceps, Aimmoniles ADeshayesit. LPterocera Jbecklesii 

 P200  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000200.xml 
 TERTIARY SERIES. 144 The Osborne section is peculiarly interesting for the link that it affords between the very different aspect of these beds at Cliff End, as compared with those at St. Helens. The strata of these latter rise from below the Scone Point Limestone, near the site of Worsley's Tower, and crop out near the first Chine in Colwell Bay and Cliff End. West of Binstead Point a thin band of comminuted shells occur, containing Cyrena, Limnæa longiscata, Unio, Melania excavata, Melanopsis, Planorbis discus, etc. " At the west corner of Apley Wood a bed of calcareous sandstone, about four feet thick (full in places of casts of Paludina, associated with numerous Unios, Limnæa, Planorbis, and occasional bones of Turtle) appears on the shore beneath the sea wall."* A few years ago, when on a visit to the neighbour hood, I saw a good section of the Osborne beds displayed near the Priory, or Summer House Point. I also visited the shore near St. Helen's old Church — " now, from the inroads of the sea, situated on the shore, and washed by each recurrent tide, and is converted into a sea-mark " — and worked my way along it towards the Priory, examining as I went the loose blocks of Limestone, many of which I found to be full of the casts of Limnæa and Planorbis. Some workmen were engaged in breaking up these blocks, and though I carefully scrutinised the fragments, I could find no fossils sufficiently perfect for the cabinet. One of the workmen, however, informed me that he had once discovered a fossil turtle in the sandstone which caps the low cliff. The Bembridge Limestone passes into * Mem. Geol. Sutt., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 68. 

 P283  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000283.xml 
 ADDENDUM. 225 the late Dr. Wilkins was purchased by the committee and added to the Museum. The chief object of its founders is to collect and exhibit the natural and historical productions of and pertaining to the Isle of Wight. In pursuing this course the committee have somewhat deviated, as many presents have been received illustrative of other localities. The Museum is open from 11 to 4 daily (Sundays excepted), and is accessible to the public free of charge. Those, however, who have the means, are expected to give some little pecuniary aid, for the reception of which a box is placed within the room near the entrance. The present curators are : Mr. John Wood, Dr. Groves, and Mr. John Young. The contents of the Museum are very varied : amongst the numerous objects of interest in the geological department is a collection of bones of the gigantic Saurian reptiles of the Wealden of the Island, several of which may be said to rival those from the same formation in the collection of the British Museum. The other formations, ranging from the Lower Green sand to the Tertiaries, are all represented by their fossils, which have been arranged, classified, and named by Mr. Keeping, of the Woodwardian Museum, Cambridge. In the Archæological department are collections of ancient and Roman pottery, flint imple ments and arrow heads, with bones and teeth of animals, the most prominent among them being the teeth of the Mammoth (Elephas Primigenius). The Antiquarian department contains Roman and other coins and Samian ware and pottery ; also Anglo-Saxon remains from the tumuli or barrows on the hill-tops p 

 P265  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000265.xml 
 THE HUMAN PERIOD. 207 by fire after the Romans left ; but most careful exami nation of both villas, especially that of Morton, have failed to bring me to any such conclusion. Had they been destroyed by fire, the roof-tiles and other portions would exhibit some of the ordinary effects of burning, which is here not the case except in the flues of the Hypocaust. It appears to me a more reasonable suggestion that on the departure of the Romans from the Island, the natives, instead of burning the dwellings which so far surpassed their own, took possession of and dwelt in them. The superior accommodation would tempt them ; their own homes consisted of nothing better than a circular hole made in the gronnd round which branches of trees were stuck, their tops bent in such a manner as to form a roof strong enough to support a protective covering of rushes, ferns, and other materials, a small hole being left to allow the smoke from their fires to escape. It can easily be imagined how readily they would abandon these huts when the villas were vacated. These barbarians, how ever, would have little knowledge of building and repairing, and therefore, in course of time, the villas would fall into ruin and disuse, remaining for 1600 years hidden and unknown. Messrs. Price and Hilton support the above theory in their Guide to the Roman Villa at Morton ; research having proved that all relics and animal remains found amongst these ruins are identical with those found in the midden heaps of the Undercliff and other parts of the Island. " Let us see the contents of the chambers of the Villa at Morton. The first contained portions of stag horns, and bones of various kinds; the second, broken pottery, 

 P44  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000044.xml 
 26 the lower greensand. and Rocken-end is the only layer of a green colour, end- ing at the latter place in pure white glass house sand. The Atherfield deposits have been divided by Dr. Fitton into the following divisions, in ascending order : feet, inches. i. Perna Mulleti beds 5 3 2. Atherfield clays 6o o 3. The Crackers ... ... •■• 85 o 4. (Exogyra group) Lower Gryphæa 32 o 5. Scaphites group ... ... ... 50 4 6. Lower Crioceras group ... ... 16 3 7. Walpen clays and sands ... ... 57 o 8. Upper Crioceras group ... ... 46 2 9. Walpen and Ladder sands ... 42 o 10. Upper Gryphæa (Exogyra group) 16 o 11. Cliff-end sands ... ... ... 20 o 12. Foliated clay and sand ... ... 25 o 13. Sands of Walpen and Blackgang Undercliff 97 o 14. Ferruginous sands of Blackgang Chine 20 6 15. Upper clays and sand rock ... 118 o 16. Various sands and clays ... ... 118 4 Total thickness 808ft. ioin. The above strata make their appearance, in succession, in the cliffs between Atherfield Point and Rocken-end, towards which they dip with a gentle incline of about 20. First Division. Perna Mulleti Beds (5ft. 3in.^. There is a junction of the Wealden clays, shales, and limestones at Atherfield Point, where they first appear in a bed, five or six feet thick, and fresh or brackish water shells — the remains of Cyclas, Paludina, Potamides, etc. — can be collected. The clay, in the upper part, is intermixed with grey and green sands. Two or three 

 P244  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000244.xml 
 1 86 DENUDATION AND LANDSLIPS. places. Whatever road or path had formerly existed through the place had been effaced, and with some difficulty I passed over the avalanche, which extended many hundred yards. Proceeding eastward, the whole of the soil seemed to have moved, and was filled with chasms and bushes, lying in every direction. The intricate and rugged path became gradually less distinct, and soon divided into mere sheep tracks, leading into an almost impenetrable thicket. I per ceived, however, the lofty wall of rock which belonged to the same stratum as the Undercliff, softened in its rugged character by the foliage which grew in its fissures, and still preserving some remains of its former picturesque beauty. Neglect, and the unfortunate accident which had lately happened, had now altered the features of this once delightful spot, and I was soon bewildered among rocks, streams of water, and tangling briars." Several slips have since occurred, but cannot be compared in extent with that of East End, or of another, described as - follows by an eye-witness : — " The ground lies in waves or folds like the billows of an agitated ocean, or perhaps it still more nearly resembles turf broken up by the action of an enormous plough." When the geological structure of the Undercliff is examined, it will be readily seen that, owing to the imperviousness of the Gault, the surface waters flow out between it and the Upper Greensand. The Chalk Marl and Upper Greensand, both water-bearing rocks, would readily become charged, and fissured and split up by frosts, and would slide off in the direction of the least resistance by their own weight. 

 P220  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000220.xml 
 1 62 TERTIARY SERIES. that they had been acted on by intense frost ; but the evidence of a glacial period having ever existed in the Island is so doubtful as to leave little warrant for such conjectures. In a pit on the right side of a path over the Downs, the Upper Chalk is seen reduced to pipe clay, in which nodules of white flints are imbedded, and the bowl shaped excavations are filled with water. The clay preventing the water from being absorbed by the chalk thus preserves natural reservoirs for the sheep and cattle. " To a thinking mind few phenomena are more strange than the state of little ponds on the summit of chalk hills, many of which are never dry in the most trying droughts of summer And again what appears to me still more remarkable is the fact that soon after a new pond has been made and has received a partial supply of water from a few passing showers, it becomes inhabited by various kinds of freshwater plants and shell fish, and even frogs and lizards, although it may be remote from any other pond, and at an elevation of 400 or 500 feet above the level of the surrounding country."* I once observed the same phenomena in a small hole of water, half way down a path at the west end of Whitecliff Bay, at the junction of the Chalk and the Tertiary, from which I attempted to drink, but found it so stocked with tadpoles and other creatures that I was obliged to pass on without refreshing myself. The gravel on the hill tops on the southern side of the Island appears to be the same age as those of the central ridge, and with them perhaps may be included the valley deposits of which I have spoken. •White's "Natural History of Selborne." 

 P140  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000140.xml 
  

 P196  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000196.xml 
  

 P205  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000205.xml 
 bembridge series. 149 The shore near the Point is studded with blocks of limestone containing casts of Limnæa, Planorbis and the small fossilised seed vessels of Chara Gyroginites. The collector, if not fastidious as to the quality of his specimens, will not be troubled on the score of quantity, the organic remains being most abundant. In the marls, myriads of a species of Cerithium are found with the shells destroyed, and the internal whorls filled with the substance of the enclosing beds. The Limestone yields some fair specimens of Planorbis, Cyrena obtusa, Melania striata, Paludina, Limnæa; and in the upper portion there is a bed in which, together with other fossils, Oysters occur. The waters under which these strata were formed must have teemed with animal life, and although (with the exception of the Oysters, which are well preserved with both valves in contact) the fossil remains are of no great value for the cabinet, yet as affording oppor tunities of study and comparison, they are most interesting. It was near the point that a palm leaf was discovered by Dr. Mantell. The deposits in Whitecliff Bay have a total thick ness of 20 feet ; their characteristic fossils re-appear inland, associated with and sometimes replaced by new species. Limnæa and Planorbis are constant throughout. At Dodpits and Stony Cross Paludina orbicularis and Bulimus ellipticus are found ; the finest specimens of the latter shell are found at Sconce. The Bembridge Limestone at the top of Headon Hill has apparently undergone denudation, and is hidden by a deposit of chalk and sand. " On the north side it appears in the face of the cliff, and is displayed better than at Sconce or Cliff 

 P179  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000179.xml 
 LONDON CLAY. 127 This pebble band contains a few organic remains, of which the most common are the teeth of a species of Lamma [Shark] , and the Ditrupa plana also occurs and traces of several species of shells. It reposes upon a somewhat uneven and worn surface of the underlying stratum, small and unimportant however as this bed here is, it is nevertheless remakable for the extent of its range, the uniformity of its lithological characters and the permanence of its organic remains — conditions of the more value from its position between the two main members of the Eocene series. It forms an excellent base line, and its characters are so well marked that it can be traced without much difficulty from the Isle of Wight to Woodbridge in Suffolk, a distance in a straight line of about 160 miles from south-west to north-east." " The basement bed of the London Clay constitutes a well-marked horizon dividing the London Clay forma tion, by a change, both in the palæontological conditions, in the ancient physical geography of the district, and from the older Eocene deposits, which intervene between the Chalk and the London Clay, its mineral mass being composed of the debris of the former, while its animal remains belong to the period of the latter."* The more common fossils of the London Clay here are : — Nucula amygdaloides Pholadomya margaritacea Natica glaucinoides Turritella imbricataria Turtle (bones) Ditrupa plana Zanthopsis tuberculata, Koenig Pinna affinis Ostrea sp. Cyprina planata •Prestwich, Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, Ti. 1850, pp. 255 and 281. 

 P172  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000172.xml 
 122 CHALK FORMATION. of the Lower Chalk, into the pure white chalk of whicb the main portion of the cliff is composed, strikingly banded with lines of nearly vertical flints. After rounding the Point, and noticing the projecting mass known as the "White Horse," almost severed from the cliffs, which is an outlier of the main body, like those of Freshwater, and which forms the eastern point alluded to above. 

 P245  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000245.xml 
 187 PITLANDS FARM. The destruction of these upper strata is continually going on, and it is only when by some cause more violent than usual, great masses fall, that it forces itself upon the notice and becomes recorded. The The upper strata are also much jointed, thus offering a ready entrance for water and the subsequent action of frost. One slip formed a narrow gorge, almost exposing the underlying Lower Greensand. Similar slips appear inevitable, and the road above the cliff has been destroyed more than once. This might possibly be prevented by a more careful system of drainage, which would carry off the surface water to some degree, and prevent the separation of the upper beds. Referring to the landslip of 1799, which took place after a protracted frost, a farm, known as Pitlands, fell from the cliff into the sea, together with the rocks, trees and other vegetation in its neighbourhood. The following is an account of the catastrophe in a letter dated, Niton, February 9th, 1799, appeared in the " Isle of Wight Magazine " of the same year : — " Dear Sir,— Yesterday I was desired by your tenant, farmer Harvey, to go down to Pitlands, to take a view of your cottage their, in order to communicate to you what follows. About Tuesday last, the whole of the ground from the cliff above was seen in motion, which motion was directed to the sea, nearly in a straight line. Harvey perceived the house to be falling and took out the curious antique chairs. The ground above beginning with a great founder at the base of the cliff, immediately under St. Catherine's Down, kept gliding forward, and at last rushed on with violence, totally changing the surface of all the ground to the west 

 P122  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000122.xml 
 86 THE UPPER GREENSAND. embraces a splendid view of Sandown Bay, and the white cliffs of Culver, beyond which the Foreland is seen stretching far to sea, terminating' with a light ship called " The Nab." The cliff runs parallel to the village of Bonchurch, at the foot of which some hand some villas have been erected, whose gardens and shrubberies extend up to it, clothing its base with vegetation, and thus securing it (as between Steephill and St. Lawrence) against the attacks of the elements on the soft beds at its base. Its continuity is again broken at Bonchurch Shute, and the road to Shanklin passes over it, leaving on the right the cliff at Eastend -the scene of the Landslip. Chloritic and Fossiliferous Marl. These beds, combined and measured from the upper zone of the Chert beds at the undermentioned places, I found to differ, as under : Niton, beneath the Lighthouse ... (about) 5ft. 4m. Ventnor, near the Railway Station ... ,, 8ft. oin. Bonchurch, a large mass on the shore measured ,, gft. oin. Near Culver Cliff ... ,, 5ft. oin. This stratum will be found to differ in its litho logical composition in short distances — as at Bonchurch it is hard and compact, with but few fossils, and some of it assumes a bluish tinge ; at Culver it is extremely hard, of an almost buff colour, and exhibits but few fossils in relief ; at Ventnor it is light grey, and fossils 

 P302  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000302.xml 
  

 P215  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000215.xml 
 hempstead series. 157 In thus briefly sketching out the interesting points in the Geology of the Isle of Wight as regards the Tertiaries, it is beyond the province of this book to repeat the detailed sections, so indispensable to the worker. The " Memoirs of the Geological Survey," from which I have largely drawn, are full of the most minute and exact details as to particular beds, which in actual field work are found invaluable. To preserve fossils collected near the coast from any of these Tertiary beds, it is necessary to immerse them in fresh water until the salt is extracted from them ; without this precaution they are liable to decay and crumble to pieces. The Chalk Marl fossils are liable to suffer in the same way. The following extract from Professor Geikie's " Text Book of Geology," 1882, p. 837, will assist the reader in forming some idea of the life and climate of the time : — " The climate of the Tertiary periods underwent in the northern hemisphere a remarkable change. At the beginning it was of a subtropical character, even in the centre of Europe and North America. It then gradually became more temperate, but flowering plants and shrubs continued to live even far within the Arctic circle, where, then as now, there must have been six sunless months every year. Growing still milder the climate passed eventually into a phase of extreme cold, when snow and ice extended from the Arctic regions into the centre of Europe and North America. Since that time the cold has again diminished, until the present thermal distribution has been reached. With such changes of geography and of climate the life of Tertiary time, as might have been anticipated, is found to have been remarkably varied. 

 P202  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000202.xml 
 146 TERTIARY SERIES. recompensed my toil in rearing them, as well by their beauty as their fragrance." Continuing my walk amidst the blocks of Limestone and Sandstone, I found that the shore terminated abruptly in a point which formed one of the arms of Priory Bay, at the northern extremity of which was a landing place. " A fault at the Point, running in a direction 300 E. of S., skirts the shore and brings up the Nettlestone division of the Osborne beds, in a manner that at first sight appears to be very puzzling."* These beds may possibly, if belonging to the Osborne series, have fallen from their proper position on to the shore below. The clays forming the slope beneath the wood a quarter of a mile south of Nettlestone Point are almost black, and contain some fossiliferous bands, consisting chiefly of half valves of Cyrena semi-striata, Cyrena iransversa, Melanopsis, Melania, Paludina lenta, etc. Large quantities fall out of the cliff", and strew the ground beneath. A band of sandy clay near the top of the cliff contains Cerithium and other shells. They are of a reddish brown colour, and when first seen they appear to be in perfect condition, but owing to the clay being much laminated and permeated by water, it is difficult to keep them so when extracted. These beds and their fossils, though small in extent, are really of great interest to the collector. Nothing more is seen of the Osborne series between Watchhouse Point and Whitecliff Bay, where, in the summer of 1856, about 80 feet of these beds were • Mem. Geol. Surv., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 69. 

 P150  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000150.xml 
 CHALK FORMATION. 104 In this direction also appears an ancient mansion (Knighton), embellished with woods, groves, and gardens. South-eastward is a broad expanse of ocean bounded only by the horizon. More to the east, in continuation of the chain of hills on which I am sitting (Ashey), rise two Downs ((Brading and Yaver land hills), one beyond the other ; both are covered with sheep, and the sea is just visible over the furthest hill, as a terminating boundary. In this point are seen ships, some of which are sailing, and others lying at anchor. On the north, the sea appears like a noble river (the Solent), varying from three to seven miles in breadth, between the banks of the opposite coast and those of the Island. Immediately underneath me is a fine woody district, diversified by many pleasing objects. Distant towns (Portsmouth and Gosport) are visible on the opposite coast, and numbers of ships occupy the sheltered station which this northern channel affords them. Westward, the hills follow each other, forming several intermediate and partial valleys, in undulations like the waves of the sea, and bending to the south, complete the boundary of the larger valley I have described, to the southward of the hill on which I sit. One hill alone (St. Catherine's), the highest in elevation, and about ten miles to the south westward, is enveloped in a cloud, which just permits a dim and hazy sight of a signal post, a light-house, and an ancient chantry, on its summit."* In Alum Bay, as well as throughout the range of he main mass, the dip of the strata gradually increases in amount, proceeding from south to north, or from Annals of the Poor," by the late Bev. Legh Bichmond. 

 P201  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000201.xml 
 OSBORNE. 145 the sea close to the old Church Tower, and re-appears at Bembridge Point on the opposite coast. The Rev. Legh Richmond gives the following description of the neighbourhood : — " Eastward of us a large river or lake of sea water formed by the tide, and nearly enclosed by land.1 Beyond this was a fine Bay and road for ships, filled with vessels of every size, from the small sloop or cutter to the first-rate man-of-war.3 On the right hand of the haven rose a hill of peculiarly beautiful form, and considerable height. Its verdure was very rich, and many hundred sheep grazed upon its sides and summits. From the opposite shore of the same water, a large, sloping extent of bank was diversified with fields, woods, hedges and cottages.3 At its extremity stood, close to the sea itself, the remains of an ancient Church,1 still preserved as a sea-mark. Far beyond the Bay a very distant shore was observable, and land beyond it ; trees, towns, and other buildings appeared, more especially when gilded by the reflected rays of the sun.5 To the south-west of the garden was another Down, covered also with flocks of sheep, and a portion of it fringed with trees." At the foot of this hill lay the village,7 a part of which gradually ascended to the rising ground on which the Church stood. From the intermixture of houses with gardens, orchards, and trees, it presented a very pleasing aspect. Several fields adjoined the garden. On the east and north were a number of cattle pasturing. My own little shrubberies and flower beds variegated the view, and 1 Brading HaTen, now enclosed. 2 St. Helen's Roads and Priory Bay. 3 Bembridge Down. 4 Old Church, St. Helen's. 5 Portsmouth and the Sussex Coast. 6 Brading Down. 7 Probably Brading. K 

 P251  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000251.xml 
 THE SOLENT. 193 as the Isle of Wight, without intercommunication with the main land ; therefore from the co-existence of man and elephants it is clear that the Solent must have been formed within the date of human existence. " The Tertiary strata on the east of the Medina, and those of Stans Ore Point were elevated, or the strata west of the Medina as far as Yarmouth were depressed by two faults, one east and one west in the line of the Solent. These faults must have occurred prior to the great alluvial denudation which shaped the contour of the surface of the Island, for the alluvial forces have obscured the faults themselves on the surface, and subsequent washings have covered by their deposits the Elephant stratum. I allude to these faults because, when they occurred, adjoining strata were raised or depressed, and the questions follow — Were the Chalk strata between Freshwater Down and Dorsetshire then broken through ? Was the formation of the Solent then commenced ? Were the lands in the line of the river then depressed, thus facilitating the drainage of the higher lands ? Having started with the undeniable fact that time was when the Solent did not exist, therefore we may conclude that after it commenced to form it was fordable. By the foregoing I have proved it was within the era of the human race (the aborigines ofthe British Islands), therefore there is no reason why the waters of the Solent should not have severed the last land communication with the Island." The above extracts are taken from a paper of a controversial character, respecting the connection of the Island with the tin trade of the Romans. It contains some geological facts from the pen of a local geologist of experience. I have selected those passages N 

 P9  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000009.xml 
 PREFACE; During the years 1881-2-3, I published, in the Isle of Wight Advertiser, a series of letters upon Geology, several of which particularly referred to that of the Isle of Wight. At the solicitation of many friends and readers, and seeing that Dr. Mantell's — the only popular work on the subject — was published nearly forty years "ago, I have decided with much diffidence to re-publish these letters in the form of a Popular Guide to the Geology of the Isle of Wight. For upwards of thirty years my spare hours have been passed in the study of Geological phenomena, and in collecting organic remains from the various deposits of my district. The splendid work of the late Professor Edward Forbes, supplemented by that of Mr. Bristow, and the many smaller works that have been written on the subject, will always be books of reference for the student ; and though I do not presume to place myself amongst such devoted workers 

 P104  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000104.xml 
 74 THE UPPER GREENSAND. were in such a friable state as to be quite untrans portable. I therefore take as a basis a bed of what appears to be Gault, being much darker and more compact than the grey micaceous clay and sand on which it rests, indicating an almost sudden change from these to Gault. It contains in some places masses of a dark shaly substance, and is full of the remains of Serpula antiquata. At its base is a thin band of hard blue chert containing the crushed shells ofa large Inoceramus, on the top of which is another bed of the same material, also containing Inocerami in a more perfect condition, with Panopæa. The total thickness of these lower beds is about three feet. They contain the first organic remains which can be recognised in the series. The next thirty feet above consists of soft yellow micaceous sands, divided by layers of large nodules or concretions of Rag, about five or six in number. These nodules, in shape like a compressed cone, are circular, and measure from a few inches to three or four feet in diameter. Nearly all of them, especially those of the lower zones, contain, with the layers of Rag, many fossils, such as large Ammonites (A. rostratus, A. inflatus); and groups of fossils often occur in them. Some of the lower concretions have a central elevation, and some have a phosphatic tube-like structure in the centre, often four or five sided ; they are quite common in the lower beds of the black shaly masses mentioned. The layers of Rag and nodules are all coated with the soft micaceous sandy matrix in which they are imbedded, which weathers off on exposure to the elements, often exhibiting fossils in relief on their surfaces, especially in the cliffs East of Blackgang 

 P54  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000054.xml 
 THE LOWER GREENSAND. 32 part of the roof and sides of the cavern, and the fossils they contain are exposed in relief, consisting of the following: Ammonites, Trigonia Dædalea, Gervillia-anceps, etc., representing a kind of natural ornamented cave. I have stated that the lower portion of these deposits is highly interesting, on account of the number and variety of the fossils it contains, some of which do not occur either above or below in this series of deposits. Long tabular slabs, some of them measur ing six or seven feet long, and from a foot to eighteen inches thick, crowded with the long Pinna-like shell, Gervillia anceps, also G. aviculoides, frequently fall from the cliff to the beach. Besides the larger nodules, there are other smaller concretionary masses, some of which contain a number of small agglomerated shells, many of them appearing to be confined to these masses. There is another curious circumstance connected with the larger concretions, which, when broken, are found to contain many fossils. Besides these, they almost invariably enclose roundish sandy concretions of a buff colour, many of them crowded with, small shells, such as Venus, Rostellaria Thetis, Area, Ammonites-Deshayesii, Pterocera, Natica, etc. The Crackers group extends from below Atherfield High Cliff, ascending to the Atherfield Coast Guard Station. The lower part of this group is a brown clay and sand, about 25 feet thick, which contains (amongst other fossils) calcareous casts of Ammonites, and Astacus remains. It is called the Lower Lobster bed, and has always been remarkable for the number and beauty of these fossils (Astacus Vectensis), one of which is figured in Mantell's " Geology of the Isle of Wight;" it is also figured and described by Professor Bell, 

 P125  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000125.xml 
 chloritic and fossiliferous marl. 87 numerous, and the same ma}- be said of it between Ventnor and Niton, where large blocks are met with all along the shore, until Rockenend is reached. This is the best route for collecting fossils, both from this stratum and the Upper Greensand. Much debris of the latter, in the shape of blocks of all sizes, is met with, the fossils being weathered out. The Fossiliferous and Chloritic Marl are exposed in situ in a quarry near the Ventnor Railway Station, resting on the Upper Greensand. They are also met with at the Railway Station itself, which was formerly a disused quarry, from whence much of the material for building purposes was excavated during the rise of the town. It has since been much enlarged and ex tended for the purpose of forming the Station. It is only when the quarrymen are at work removing the top beds that fossils can be procured. The quarry near exhibits a good section for the purpose of measure ment, but it is not worked at present. Going westward, St. Lawrence Shute (formed by a depression of the strata) has caused the upper beds both of the Chloritic and Fossiliferous Marl to appear, a little distance up the road, resting on the Chert Beds. Many fossils have been collected here. The next place is Gore Cliff, before mentioned, on the sea face of St. Catherine's Down, where the above two beds can be examined. As they only crop out near the edge of the cliff, which is here elevate to probably 150 feet, it renders their examination a some what dangerous feat to a timid person. In spite of this drawback, however, it is well worth a visit, as the constant exposure of the surface of the strata to the elements has caused it to become soft and shaly. The 

 P154  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000154.xml 
 The Needles 

 P162  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000162.xml 
 114 CHALK FORMATION. be found that such forms as are present will be beautifully clear, and usually perfect. The same pro cess should invariably be carried out with all the softer rocks met with by the student, as many clays, and even some sands, are rich in microscopic shells. The Pearly Xtiuttliis—Oii-en. Sepia, or Citith ~'tsh. 

 P16  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000016.xml 
 WEALDEN FORMATION, 2 exposure of them in Sandown Bay. The lowest Wealden beds are those forming the shore at Brook Point. They consist of red and variegated marls, upon which lie numerous trunks and branches of coniferous trees, commonly called the " Pine Raft." The trees are completely mineralized, being converted into a black stony mass, containing a considerable quantity of iron pyrites ; they lie in a horizontal position, in every direction, broken up into rounded fragments, varying from a few inches to as much as two or three feet in diameter. Some of the trees still present traces of woody structure, the annular rings of growth being clearly visible, but others are con verted into pyrites, or into a black substance resembling jet. In the letters which Professor Webster — one of the earliest Geologists — wrote to Sir Henry Englefield, 1811-1813, when it was possible to speak of "that part of natural science called Geology," after describ ing the Wealden beds in the vicinity, he says, " On lifting up some of the sea weeds, which grew upon the shore between high and low water-mark, I was sur prised to find almost all the rocks below them composed of petrified trees." There is no evidence to show that the trees grew on the spot, but were doubtless drifted from a distance in the same manner as the trunks and branches of trees are brought down by the Mississippi, and other large rivers of the present day. Dr. Mantell, after repeated visits to Brook Point, arrives at the same conclusion : he says, " The trees are all lying pros trate and confusedly intermingled. There are no erect trunks, nor any other indication that the forest was submerged with its native soil, like that of the Isle of Portland. On the contrary, this accumulation of fossil 

 P256  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000256.xml 
 198 THE HUMAN PERIOD. Mr. Hambrough having kindly given permission to make an excavation. Among the remains of the fire place were found a large quantity of charcoal and some large stones, exhibiting deep traces of the action of fire, together with a number of small round pebbles. In close proximity to the fireplace was the kitchen midden, or refuse heap, where were found numbers of limpet shells, oyster shells, and cockles, thickly massed together, and in conjunction with these were several bones of the ox, sheep, pig, etc. Intermingled in this heap were fragments of pottery of Roman manufacture. Near this, also turned up in the excavation, a rubbing stone, which was used for grinding corn. Several nodules of iron pyrites were also met with, evidently used for striking fire. Pyrites were well known to the ancients for this purpose, as we find it noticed in Pliny, in these words : ' Pyrites, on being struck with any kind of stone, emits a spark which, received upon dry fungus or leaves, produces a fire almost sooner than it could be named. The spot was evidently chosen by some of the rude fishing population of the Undercliff for grinding corn, baking bread, and cooking meat, and the shell fish they had procured beneath them on the shore, and for all culinary purposes such as would be performed by a rude savage in the open air, instances of which frequently occur amongst the uncivilized races of Africa and Australia at the present day. The primitive Briton evidently did exactly as the A istralian, who, when going to cook his food, takes a number of stones and puts them on the fire ; when they are heated the embers are swept off and the food is simply allowed to remain there until thoroughly cooked. The shells, bones, and broken pottery found close by were 

 P257  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000257.xml 
 THE HUMAN PERIOD. 199 doubtless the relics cast aside by the primitive savage when he had finished his meal. The Roman pottery found in the heap must have been obtained in the manufactories established in the south of England or in the Island, and had been used bv the early inhabi tants in their primitive cooking place. The site of a Roman manufactory was discovered near Barnes Chine, in the parish of Brixton, on the authority of the late Mr. Kell. These kitchen middens must evidently date from a period when the Romans were still in the Island. This, however, is not the only instance of civilization and barbarism being in close proximity." Many midden heaps, however, have been discovered containing no relics of Roman pottery. For instance, in the Grove Road, below the Railway Station, when excavations were being made on the site of the present Clarendon Hotel, the workmen came upon one of these heaps, consisting of limpet shells and bones. A cooking stone, and some lower jaws, a thigh bone, and other remains of human beings were found within a short distance, but no pottery of any description. The jaw and thigh bone were broken, the latter across the middle. The lower jaw contained four or five molar teeth much worn ; they were pronounced by those familiar with the subject to be those of a deformed, low-typed savage of gigantic stature. The skull was too decayed for preservation, but the jaw bones were placed in the museum of the Ventnor Institute. Mr. Westropp also records the discovery of a kitchen midden at Underwath, St. Lawrence, containing a cooking-stone over a heap of charcoal and ashes. No stone or flint implements have been found amongst the remains from the Undercliff, except at Bonchurch, 

 P81  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000081.xml 
 JUNCTION BED. 57 Greensand, Gault, Upper Greensand, and Lower and Upper Chalk, appear in succession, as at Messly. On arriving at the summit of the hill leading up to the Blackgang Hotel, a magnificent panorama presents itself to the view on the right. A chain of chalk hills ("the central ridge") stretches away to the west, terminating in the promontory at Freshwater. Beneath the headland formed by them are those once vast outliers of chalk, long since separated from the cliff by the disintegrating power of the sea, resting upon fissured and shattered strata, dislocated and rent by upheaval, known as " The Needles Rocks." In the intervening space, between the chalk hills and the coast, all the strata have disappeared down to the Lower Greensand and the Wealden, forming an extensive valley of denudation of many square acres in extent, which consist of cultivated fields and green meadows, separated by trim hedge rows, whilst farm houses and cottages are seen dotted here and there, amidst clumps of stately elms, with the towers of the village churches peeping out from amidst the trees and foliage, giving to the whole that peculiar charm inci dental to an English rural landscape. Looking seaward is seen the lofty dark red cliffs of Atherfield, and their headland, from which extends a ledge far away to sea. Beyond, again, are the low red and yellow cliffs of the Wealden, with Brook Point in the distance ; also Chale Bay, beginning at Rocken End and ending at Atherfield Point. The whole forming a series of headlands and indentations, caused by the inroads of the sea upon the softer portions of the deposits, leaving the harder strata before described, which form the headlands and ledges. 

 P153  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000153.xml 
  

 P96  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000096.xml 
 70 THE GAULT. of this kind, when the two different surfaces which had thus slid presented the appearance, long after it had taken place, of being highly polished, and the separation was as perfect as though made with a cutting instrument. The Gault of the Island may be described generally as a blue clay, more or less sandy, with minute spangles of mica distributed through it. It contains little or no calcareous matter, but Gypsum, in the form of crystals of selenite, is sometimes present in small quantities. The fossils are few, and scattered at rare intervals, but they are peculiar of the species found in the Lower Greensand, having extended upward. The total thick ness of the Gault in Compton Bay, as measured in the cliff, was found to be ioo feet. Here, after a fall of the cliff, a few fossils can be collected, chiefly from the lower portion, where most of the characteristic fossils occur. Inoceramus, Sulcatus, Natica, Gaultina, and Ammonites Dentatus are amongst the most prominent. The latter occurs as a hard, brittle, coal black, polished substance, the inner whorls being permeated and held together by a hard phosphatic concretion, and, like all the fossils of the Island Gault, occur in a state of cast, the shell having totally disappeared, leaving nothing but the cast of the interior. In the Ammonites, the extreme inner whorl is often transformed into pyrites, with the exception of Ammonites Dentatus, and a round backed, smooth variety. Nothing but the impressions of the other fossils incidental to the Gault are found ; they can, however, be easily identified, when compared with those from the Gault at other places. They occur from ten to fifteen feet from the Junction Bed of the Lower Greensand, before described. The upper thirty 

 P4  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000004.xml 
  

 P180  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000180.xml 
 128 TERTIARY SERIES. The pebble bed at Whitecliff Bay is overlaid by a layer of buff-coloured sands ; above this lies a bed of hard sandstone, full of Ditrupa plana, which runs out to the sea, and is visible at low water.. Many years ago, when working in Whitecliff Bay on the Lower Tertiaries, I detected a second bed of Ditrupa further to the west than that mentioned by Prof. Forbes. To all appearance this band was in the mottled clays, and consisted of a very coarse red sand. Prof. Prestwich, in his ". Basement Bed of the London Clay,"* gives a section of this locality, and mentions the occurrence of two deposits containing Ditrupa. Possibly the bed I refer to is the lower one of the two given in his section. The floor of the Bay, especially during the prevalence of a west wind, is at times swept clean by the waves, but this, and other ridges of the harder strata, are frequently covered with sand for weeks together. It will be as well to state that about 35 feet from the basement there is a zone of Panopæa intermedia, and Pholadomya margaritacœ, both shells occuring with their valves closed, showing that death overtook them in the position in which they aire now found. At 50ft. the band of Ditrupa plana occurs, and at 80ft. a well marked band of small Cardita planicosta, indicating the passage into the Bracklesham beds. * Quart. Journ. Geol. Soc, vi. 1850, p. 256. 

 P97  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000097.xml 
 GENERAL DESCRIPTION. 71 or forty feet are totally devoid of organic remains, with the exception of a few phosphatic concretions, which range throughout, and some spiral shaped masses, exhibiting concentric rings, said to be Coprolites (?). A small portion of the Gault occurs on the east side of the Gas House, in situ on the shore at Ventnor, also further east, in Horse Shoe Bay, near Bonchurch, and extends from thence on the top of the cliff to Shanklin. A good section of the Gault is seen in Sandown Bay, in its place between the Upper and Lower Greensand, following the upheaval of the strata, where it can be measured approximately at the base of the talus it has formed. The Meadow called the Cowleaze, above Shanklin, is composed of the Gault. All along the terrace of the Undercliff may be seen masses of the debris of the superincumbent strata, consisting of huge masses of Chalk and Upper Greensand, some of which have sunk bodily into the soil, whilst others may be seen scattered in a variety of positions. These, in their descent, have scooped up the earth's surface, causing it to be very uneven. On almost all the terraces the Gault has been shorn of many feet of its thickness, the upper portion being thrust before it, by the falling strata, into the sea. This portion of the subject will be referred to in the description of the various Landslips which have occured in the Undercliff, caused by a solid mass of strata resting upon a bed of saponaceous clay, i.e., the Gault. The upper part of the site on which the village of Wroxall stands is composed of Gault. The lower portion, which shows evidences of having been much 

 P301  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000301.xml 
  

 P132  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000132.xml 
 94 CHALK FORMATION. Towards the land the outline of this range is irregular, being of various breadths ; whilst its face towards the sea is nearly straight, and bounded by the edge of the great wall of the Undercliff. Immediately east of St. Catherine's the range is narrow, but at St. Lawrence a branch runs inland three miles, to the various parts of which the names of Week, Stenbury, and Appuldur combe Downs have been given. Littletown, Wroxall, and St. Boniface Downs are very irregular. The two latter show several heads of coombs, which, no doubt, before the fall of the Undercliff, extended as transverse valleys some distance southwards. St. Boniface Down and Littletown Down join that of St. Martin's on the east, and extend westward in a winding direction, from above Shanklin to Cook's Castle, where the whole terminates in a rounded spur, crowned with foliage, from which a gentle descent down a narrow* lane leads to the village of Wroxall. These Eastern Downs, as well as those on the West, are everywhere composed at their base of the Chalk Marl, which runs around them in what may be termed " a fillet," about 60 feet thick, and passes upwards into the Grey Chalk (which is much used in this locality for lime-burning). The characteristic fossils are chiefly found in the lower portions of the deposit. Owing to the difficulty of dividing the Chalk Marl from the Grey Chalk, on account of the distribution of the fossils, only approximate measurements can be obtained of these two deposits. These measurements are only possible in the few pits that have been opened, but none of these extend to more than 12 to 70 feet vertically, and most of the fossiliferous zones are obscured by debris. I have there- 

 P59  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000059.xml 
 THE CRACKERS ROCKS. 35 The Upper nodules contain the following miscel laneous recognised fossils : — ■ Panopæa plicata Area exaltata Thetis minor Natica rotundata Trigonia caudata „ Dædalea Cyprina angulata Cyprina angulata (var. ros- trata) Ostrea retusa Ammonites Deshayesii Holaster complanatus (Spa- tangws retusus) The sandy bed which contains these two ranges of nodules, also includes the undermentioned fossils : — Panopæa plicata Lucina Dupiniana Thetis minor Venus Vectensis Trigonia rudis Mytilns æqualis Rostellaria glabra Pinna Robinaldina Serpula Richardi Astacus Vectensis Teredolithes Gervillia linguloides The third subdivision (3) consists of a bed of brown clay, and contains the following fossils, most of which are in excellent preservation : — Astacoid remains Modiola æqualis Rostellaria glabra Ammonites Deshayesii Vermetus polygonalis I Serpula (Vermetics) The fourth subdivision (4) is formed of a grey sandy clay, in which are the undermentioned fossils : — Panopæa plicata Corbula striatula Isocardia ornata Astarte numismalis Trigonia caudata „ rudis Cardium Cornuelianum Area Raulina „ cornueliana ,, snbhillanum Actæon albensis Rostellaria Robinaldina Nucula scapha „ spathulata Ammonites Deshayesii glabra 

 P192  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000192.xml 
 138 TERTIARY SERIES. highly inclined position of the beds in the neighbour hood of the Chalk, the lower members of the formation are comprised, for the most part, within comparatively narrow limits, and the chief portion of the superficial area occupied by the Fluvio-marine series consists of the upper members of that group. The thick beds of Limestone in this formation thin out towards the north, and altogether disappear in an easterly direction."* Headon Series This series, best seen between the river Yar and the sea at the western extremity of the Island, and along the eastern bank of the river Medina, on the eastern extremity, consists of beds of fresh water, marine, and estuarine origin. They are 133 feet thick at Headon Hill, and increase to 175 feet at Whitecliff Bay.t They are well exposed also in Totland Bay and Colwell Bay, and are separated from the series next below by a thin ferruginous band. They can be traced across the Island as a narrow band immediately under lying the Bembridge Limestone. The characteristic fossils are : — Planorbis enomphalus Limnæa longiscata Paludina lenta Potamomya plana Potamides cinctus Cytherea incrassata The Headon series was subdivided by Prof. Forbes as follows : — 1. Lower Headon ; fresh aad brackish water shells, in which Cyrena cycladiformis is a marked shell. 2. Middle Headon ; intermarine. 3. Upper Headon ; fresh water and brackish beds. Uppermost marls with Cerithium lapidum. * Mem. Geol. Surv., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 58. t Bristow. 

 P98  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000098.xml 
 72 THE GAULT. eroded between there and Winstone, rests on the Lower Greensand. The Gault also forms the slopes around Cook's Castle. The houses in the lower part of Bonchurch stand upon the Gault, and the debris of the superincumbent strata, which has fallen from above. Also the houses in the hollow below the Marine Hotel, at Ventnor, are all built upon the lower portion of the Gault. An outcrop of it occurs on the shore at the west end of Mill Bay, and it also occurs in other patches from Shanklin to Blackgang. The vegetable soil of which the terrace of the Undercliff is composed, consists, in most part, ofthe lower portion ofthe Gault at its base ; it is probably owing to the phosphates this contains that the trees, shrubs, and vegetation flourish in such luxurious growth along the line of the Undercliff, thus aiding largely in forming one of the most picturesque spots in England. The Gault, as well as the Upper Greensand, ends at Blackgang, and re-appears at Compton Bay in a highly inclined position, as at Sandown Bay. The following are the most characteristic fossils of the Gault : — Ammonites Dentatus Inoceramus Sulcatus Pecten quinquecostatus Nucula Pectinata (common) Belemnites minimus Natica Gaultiana Hamites rotundus Limæ Paralla Area carinata Inoceramus concentricus A solarium ornatuni 

 P169  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000169.xml 
 CLAY WITH FLINTS. 119 of the Upper Chalk fossils. Amongst the sponges may be mentioned Choanites and Ventriculites. The Choanites are found in hollow nodules, in which the form of the fossil is retained, the original tissue showing as oxide of iron, whilst the tubes and branches are embedded in the mass. In other examples the sponge has been probably enveloped by a mass of gelatinous silex, and has subsequently decayed ; it is in this manner that the hollow nodules have been formed, These nodules, on being broken, are found to contain a little white or reddish brown powder, including some fragments of sdicified sponge, and other minute bodies ; while in other instances the cavity is lined with quartz and chalcedon}-. It frequently happens that only part of the sponge is permeated by silex, the other portion being a friable calcareous substance embedded in the Chalk. Certain sponges, such as Ventriculites, are often found in this state. Other organisms besides sponges form the nuclei of flint nodules. The original substance of the fossil is in many cases transformed into silex without destroying its most delicate structures. In some examples the enclosed organisms appear to have sometimes undergone no change, though often they have become silicified, and of these Foraminifera have already been noticed. The Choanites and Ventriculites Are much sought after by collectors and visitors ; they are cut and polished, both for cabinet specimens and for ornamental purposes. Mr. Billings, the resident lapidary, may be relied upon for supplying genuine specimens, as well as trustworthy information. Mention is made of this for the purpose of putting visitors on their guard, there being a quantity of worthless material offered for sale under the name of " Isle of Wight 

 P209  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000209.xml 
 bembridge series. 151 " The land shells seem to occur in the softer and more tufaceous portions — the fresh water shells in the harder bands. The following list of shells was pro cured [at Sconce] for the Survey, by Mr. Wm. Cotton, of Freshwater, during the course of a single morning: — Achatina costellata ... ... 1 specimen Helix globosa ? 3 specimens ,, Vectensis ... ... ... 8 ,, ,, d'Urbani ... ... ... 12 ,, ,, occlusa ... ... ... 4 ,, ,, tropifera ... ... ... 1 specimen ,, (or Paludina) carinata ... 5 specimens Clausilia striatula ? (young) ... 2 ,, Planorbis obtusus ... ... ... 3 ,, Limnæa longiscata var. ,, slender var., small ,, ? large bodied var. Cyclotus cinctus ... ... ... 6 specimens ,, undus ... ... ... 1 specimen Planorbis discus ,, oligyratus (young) ... 25 specimens " Bulimus ellipticus, Achatina costellata, and Helix glcbosa are all species of great size and beauty."* The Bembridge Limestone is again seen on the coast between Newtown river and Hempstead Hill, forming what is known as the " Hempstead Ledge"; it contains the usual Limnæa and Planorbis. It is 16 feet thick in Gurnet Bay, on either side of which it curves and forms the slope upon which Cowes is built. Blocks of it lie scattered along the shore between Fish House and Quarr Abbey, and from Fish House to Binstead Church it runs nearly parallel with the coast line. At Binstead, near Ryde, and on both sides of the High * Mem. Geol. Surv., Brristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, pp. 75 and 76. 

 P29  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000029.xml 
 ITS LAND AND CLIMATE. 15 remarks on the physical geography, and the nature of the fauna and flora, of the country inhabited by the stupendous reptiles, whose fossil remains have so long engaged our attention. " From the nature of the alluvial sediments accu mulated in the lapse of innumerable ages in the deltas and estuaries, which now constitute a great part of the area of the south-east of England, and of the north of Germany, a general idea may be obtained of the aspect of the country through which the river flowed, and the character of the superficial strata : and from the fossil remains we may learn the nature of the trees and plants which clothed its soil, and of the animals that roamed over the land, or inhabited the waters. "Whether that country were an Island or a Continent cannot be determined ; but that it was diversified by hills and valleys, and irrigated by streams and rivers, and enjoyed a climate of a higher temperature than any part of modern Europe, is most evident. Coniferous trees in all probability clothed its alpine regions ; palms, arborescent ferns, and cycadeous plants, constituted the groves and forests of its plains and valleys ; and in its fens and marshes the equisetaceæ, and plants of a like nature, prevailed. That the soil was of a sandy character on the hills and elevated grounds, and argil laceous in the plains and marshes, may be inferred from the vegetable remains, and the materials in which they are imbedded. Sands and clays every where prevail throughout the Wealden formation, and have probably resulted from the decomposition of micaceous and felspathic rocks. " Some inferences also may be drawn as to the 

 P118  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000118.xml 
  

 P64  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000064.xml 
 THE LOWER GREENSAND. 40 Sixth Divisitn. The Lower Crioceras Group (16 feet 3 inches). The Lower layer of Crioceras rests upon the last mentioned bed, and the remaining portion of this group of strata consists of three other layers, contain ing Crioceras, embedded in sand, the lowest of which — furnishing the best specimens of that fossil — crosses the bottom of Whale Chine. These beds also contain the following fossils :— Crioceras Bowerbankii Ammonites Martini Scaphites gigas Gryphæa sinuata Ostrea carinata Terebratula sella Rynchonella Gibbsiana Ostrea prionota Pecten orbicularis Gervillia anceps Thetis minor Corbula striatnla Serpnla plexus Area consobfinas Anomia Radiata Area Gabrielis (A. exaltata) Panopæa plicata Lonchopteris Mantelli Diadema Pinna Gallieni ,, Robinaldina Carbonised vegetable re- mains Crioceras. 

 P198  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000198.xml 
 142 TERTIARY SERIES. stones, and of those comprised in the lower series in this locality, that all the important limestones in the Island were formerly referred to the Headon formation. They thin out gradually but rapidly towards the north, and disappear altogether in an easterly direction, being represented by sands and marls in Whitecliff Bay. The lower of the two thick limestones belonging to this series at Headon Hill is represented by the band forming How Ledge, between Colwell and Totlands Bays north of East Cowes, a little round the first Point, light green and red sandy clays, with bands of compressed Melania costata and bivalves, form ing a shell-marl, have slipped from a higher level on to the shore, and Paludina lenta, Cyrena obovata, Potamides (Cerithium) concavus, etc., one in a silicified condition, lie scattered in great profusion on the beach."* Between How Ledge and Lynchen Chine the strata have been contorted, and this can be well seen in the face of the cliff. Several beds of Clay Ironstone occur near Norris, separating the fossiliferous clays. This series has yielded a long and important series of organic remains, as the following list will show :-— Chara and Carpolithes Cythere (3 sp.) Balanus Cytheridea (3 sp ) Pollicipes Cytherella Serpnla (2 sp.) Cythereis And amongst the Mollusca : — Cyrena Unio Corbula Melanopsis Helix Murex Lymnæa (20 sp.) Cancellaria Planorbis Buecinum Potamomya Tellnib Potamides Voluta * Mem. Geol. Surv.. Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 61-2, 

 P291  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000291.xml 
 ADDENDUM. 233 "2. Petrifactions, are the remains of animals and vegetables in which the original structure is converted into stone, or, in other words, is petrified ; such are the silicified stems of trees from Antigua and Germany, and the bones and shells in the Oolitic and Wealden limestones. Such petrifactions may be correctly termed fossil plants, bones, or shells ; but similar organic remains, though of equal antiquity, which have not undergone such changes, are not petrifactions in the proper meaning of that term. " 3. Incrustations, are neither fossils nor petrifactions, but simply durable parts of animals or vegetables invested with travertine or calcareous deposit, which is often compact and of crystalline hardness, but does not permeate the structure of the enclosed substances ; such are the so-called petrified eggs, skulls, nests, branches, etc., formed by immersion in the incrusting springs of Derbyshire and other localities." 

 P128  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000128.xml 
 THE UPPER GREENSAND. 90 slightest monetary value as an article of commerce. Such, however, proves to be the fact, if we may judge of the labour which is engaged to procure it. Some scientific explorer of our island treasures having carried back with him to London a specimen of these fossils, an analysis of their component parts warranted the expenditure of vast sums of money in order to procure more ; and for the last three weeks great numbers of labourers, their wives and children, have been employed daily, the former in removing the upper soil and digging up the required material, the latter in picking and sifting it, preparatory to its being exported, for which preparations are now making. The article for which they are searching is chiefly composed of fossil Ammo nites, and the veins of strata in which the)* lie are from one to three feet in thickness. The shells them selves vary in size from the dimensions of a hazel-nut to the diameter of a common dinner-plate, but we saw a specimen dug from this spot not long since which was as large as the top of a tea-table. The most perfect shells are preserved for the cabinets of the curious ; the broken pieces, which now amount to several tons weight, are carefully separated from the extraneous matter, and placed by themselves in a heap ready for exportation. The spot is strictly guarded, not only on the working days, but more particularly on the Sabbath. The utmost secrecy is observed by the principals as well as the overlookers, as to the use to which it is intended to apply the collection, and no interrogations whatever can elicit a satisfactory answer. When the ' diggins ' first com menced, this singular stratum • cropped out ' near the surface, ana was easily to be procured, but as the 

 P297  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000297.xml 
 INDEX. 239 Pase Hints on the hill tops and valleys . . . 117 Flint implements, etc., found on the Island . . 201 Flints in the Chalk . . 106 Fossil leaves of plants, Alum Bay and Corse . . 129 Godshill Church _ . 179 Gault Formation . . 69 Gore Cliff . -83 Gravels on the Downs above Ventnor . . .161 Gravels at Skinner's Hill, Newchurch . 161 Gallibury and Rowborough, ancient British pits 209 Gurnard Bay, Dr. Wilkins' description of the sea en- croachments 191 Handfast Point, Purbeck 213 Hempstead series . 154 Hurst Castle . . 194 Hermitage . . 82 Height of Downs . 102 Human Period , 195 Headon series . -138 lower . 139 middle . r39 upper . 141 Information to Geologists and others visiting Atherfield . 67 Indications under which the Lower Greensand strata were deposited . . 58 Iguanodon, description and measurement of its bones 9 Junction Bed . . -54 Legh Richmond, description of scenery . . 103, 145 London Clay . . 126 Landslips . .182 Later Tertiary . . 158 Lower Gryphæa bed, Ather- field . • -37 Lower Greensand, Atherfield 25 Lower Crioceras Group 40 page Lyell, Sir Chas., on the ex- tent of the Wealden . 14 Lower Eocene . . 124 Lower Greensand, Sandown 49 Lacustrine beds of Totlands Bay . . . 163 Longstone . 203 Landslip at East End . 185 Little Stairs Point . 51 Morton Chalk Pit . . 100 Midden Heaps 195 Martin, Dr., on discovery of human skeletons . 200 Martin on the climate of the Undercliff . . . 191 Mammalian Gravel at Fresh- water . . . 161 Mantell's theory of the land and climate of the Wealden period . . 14 Noah's Nuts at Compton Chine . . .168 Newchurch vale and village 177 Newport Museum . 224 Needles, The . . 105 Old Church, Bonchurch . 195 Osborne, or St. Helen's beds 143 Perna Mulleti bed . 25 Phosphate diggings . 89 Priory Bay . 144 Peaty beds and hazel nut sands . . ■ 168 Pitlands Farm, its destruc- tion by landslip . -187 Prof. R. Jones on ancient rivers . 212 Red Beach . 173 Reefs, Ledges, and Bays . 184 Roman Villas on the Island 207 Relation of the Geology of the Isle of Wight to that ofPurbeck. . .211 Railway Station, at Ventnor 85 

 P116  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000116.xml 
 82 THE UPPER GREENSAND. Appuldurcombe, from whence the prospect is very extensive and varied, commanding, as it does, views of the Church of Godshill, on the top of its low rounded hill ; Arreton, sleeping in the shadow of the Down ; Newchurch, with its white spire ; the valley of the Yar ; the Apse and Bordwood woodland ; the snowy Culver Cliffs, and the Downs bounding the scene. Outcrops of the strata occur at Rew Farm, where they can be seen picturesquely exposed in a field, near to which a hedge bank is white in Springtime with a profusion of snowdrops. The Upper Greensand forms the base of the knoll in Appuldurcombe Park, on which stands the lower portion of an obelisk, composed of Cornish granite, erected in 1774 by Sir Richard Worsley, the founder of the estate, in memory of his kinsman, Sir Robert. It was originally 70 feet high, but was struck by lightning in 1831, which shivered it in two, and the ruins of the upper portion lie around its base. The Upper Greensand also extends around the west side of the Park, and crops out at the village of Nettlecombe, on the opposite side of the valley. It extends round the base of St. Catherine's Down, beginning at The Hermitage, a mansion built on a ridge, or spur, formed by the termination of St. Catherine's Down ; it also extends round the Down to Blackgang. Above the house stands a column, called the "Alexandrian Pillar," of the Roman Doric order; it is 72 feet high, sur mounted by a ball, and forms a conspicuous object in the landscape, as it can be seen nearly all over the Island, together with the two towers on St. Catherine's Down, a little south of it. It is constructed out of the 4 feet seam of sandstone of the Upper Greensand. On 

 P207  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000207.xml 
 UPPER FRESHWATER FOSSI LS, Headon Hill. 

 P228  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000228.xml 
 170 tertiary series. into the sea. This stream gives indications of having existed for a considerable period, during which time it has deviated from its original direction, leaving deposits of calcareous tuff as witnesses of its varied course. Twigs and stones collected by the moving water and added to the deposit (which, largely com posed of carbonate of lime, has hardened in course of time), have formed an interesting and instructive illustration of limestone formed in a chalk district by the agency of water. On the shore beneath the pier at Ventnor huge masses of rough-surfaced rocks so formed occur. They resemble the Limnæan Limestone of Headon Hill, or that of the east end of Whitecliff Bay, and are known as the " Lion Rocks.' The area over which this formation spreads is a wide one j its depth has not yet been ascertained, but during the erection of some houses in Mill Street, the workmen worked down a ten foot rod below the foundations without touching its base. The houses which have been built upon it stand firmly, its consolidation being perfect. The vegetable matter of the enclosed twigs and grasses has entirely disappeared ; they are quite hollow, and petrification has given them outwardly the appearance of stalacite. A section of this bed, showing the stratification, occurs in the low cliffs at the back of the Esplanade Hotel. The surface of some portions assumes a mammilated form. There is yet another example of the value of water as a consolidating agent. A mass oi conglomerate, commonly termed " Pudding Stone," occurs about 250 feet seawards from where the waterfall empties itself beneath the beach into the sea. This con glomerate is visible at half and low-water tides, in 

 P28  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000028.xml 
 WEALDEN FORMATION, 14 Lyall makes the following statement : ' That we cannot hesitate to refer the whole to one great delta, even then the magnitude of the deposit may not exceed that of many modern rivers. Thus the delta of the Quorra, or Niger, in Africa, stretches into the interior for more than 170 miles, and, it is supposed, occupies a space of more than 300 miles along the coast, thus forming a surface of more than 25,000 square miles, or equal to one half of England.' "* The soil which composes the surface of the Wealden in the Island does not appear to be cultivated to any great extent as arable, being chiefly meadow land, like the same formation in Sussex and Kent. Trees and shrubs flourish and grow, dotted in clumps and rows over the landscape ; most of it being a poor damp soil, consisting of clays and sands. The low ground is marked by the presence of rank grasses and rushes. At Sandown, the inhabitants who lived in the lower part of the village at the beginning of the present century were, many of them, subject to attacks of ague ; but since it has grown into a town the im provements and the systems of drainage adopted have banished all the evils attendant upon a damp and unwholesome soil, and ague is in consequence a thing of the past. Sandown is at present as healthy a town as any of the sea-bound watering places on the Island. " The Country of the Iguanodon. — We have now examined the principal specimens of the terrestrial plants and animals of the Wealden formation of the south-east of England and I will conclude this section of the present chapter with some general * " Manual of Geology," p. 237. 

 P300  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000300.xml 
  

 P299  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000299.xml 
  

 P22  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000022.xml 
 8 WEALDEN FORMATION, prise the strata stretch away westward to Compton Bay, a distance of six or eight miles, and end in the lofty promontory of Freshwater white cliffs. Near Atherfield Point the organic remains are those of animals which inhabited brackish water, conse quently their presence points to deposits as being those of an estuary or mouth of a river ; which, at some remote period, discharged itself into the sea, as both marine and fluviatile shells can be collected within a short distance of each others habitat : here, also, the two divisions of strata unite. After a storm or ground swell the shore in the vicinity is strewn with the debris of the Wealden, and the lower portion of the Lower Greensand deposits (Perna beds) ; that of the Wealden consisting of thin shales, dark clays, and sep taria, with slabs having potamides and cyclas on their surfaces, etc., exhibiting a disordered mass of ruins, as though some giant hand had strewn the strata and its remains broadcast. Thin slabs of pyrites lie about in all directions, on the surfaces of which are often found the petrified remains of the spines and scales of the Hybodus, a river shark or pike ; the spines are said to have formed the anterior part of the dorsal fin. Other slabs contain what appears to be the comminuted wing cases of insects ; also teeth and vertebræ of small fish. With reference to the fossilised remains of the gigantic animals, which have left their disjointed remains in this ancient delta, it must be borne in mind that they are mostly separated by the wash of the waters from the great river and its tributaries. The skeletons, after being long exposed to the current, were disjointed ; the sinews and muscles became macerated ; the bones which composed the skeleton became separated ; and 

 P275  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000275.xml 
 APPENDIX. 217 chalk at Handfast Point with that of Alum Bay, and on passing the Point a like similarity of strata was apparent between that of Swanage Bay and Sandown Bay. The order of succession is precisely the same, and ranges from the Chalk to the Weald Clay. The Purbeck beds extend below Durlston Bay, and passing round to the west still lower strata are exposed. With the exception of the Hastings sands of Swanage Bay, to which series a portion of the Wealden beds of the Isle of Wight may perhaps be referred, there is no equivalent in the Isle of Wight to these latter strata. With regard to the Tertiaries of the Purbeck district they are, in many respects, identical with those of the Isle of Wight, the most remarkable being the pipe-day beds of the Bagshot series, with their fossil leaves ; they are to be found at Corse as at Bournemouth. In 1855 Dr. Bowerbank and Mr. Prestwich placed about 300 specimens at the disposal of the officers of the Geological Survey, which resulted in the recogni tion of 50 well characterised species, most of them referable to living genera. Out of 22 species found at Bournemouth, 13 are identical with those of Alum Bay, and after comparison witi tropical and sub tropical flora, the conclusion arrived at was that at that period the Isle of Wight enjoyed a climate com parable to Southern Europe at the present day. Those specially interested in the fossil botany of these deposits cannot do better than study the beautiful plates now being figured and descibed by Mr. Starkie Gardner, in the volumes of the P. læontographical Society. That the Isle of Wig ht has been separated from the mainland in comparativ ;ly recent times is evident from the occurrence of the r mains of elephants, etc., in the 

 P156  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000156.xml 
 108 CHALK FORMATION. of hauling towards him, from the sides of the ledges, the rope by which he descended. Many of these ledges project seaward to the extent of several feet, and in descending it was necessary to swing outwards to such a distance — and probably at a distance of from four to five hundred feet above the sea — as would give a returning impetus sufficient to ensure a landing upon the ledges where the birds congregated. These ledges are composed of the harder portions of the chalk, the softer being weathered out, leaving excavations of sufficient depth to provide the birds with shelter. A recent Act, protecting the birds during the the breeding season (by establishing a close-time) has caused this calling to cease. I have been told that formerly a rental was paid for the exclusive right of obtaining and selling the eggs to collectors. This monopoly, however, suffered many encroachments from those who, desirous to obtain the eggs — as much, perhaps, from love of adventure as profit — found means to evade any recognition of " rights." This Act has been valuable in somewhat staying the destruction of the birds, but unfortunately many are still annually destroyed for the sake of the profit arising from the sale of their skins and feathers. This is much to be regretted, not only on account of their value as "scavengers of the sea," but for their use in heavy fogs, in warning sailors of the close proximity of land. Among the most characteristic of the birds that habitually frequent the cliffs are the Guillimot, Puffin (whose numbers, however, are much decreased), Razor Bill, Cormorant, Shag, and Herring-Gull. The Cormorant at one time built on the Needles rocks. Samphire, which grows in abundance on the cliffs, 

 P164  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000164.xml 
 116 CHALK FORMATION. In 1875, M. Barrois, the eminent French Geologist, published in " Les Annales des Sciences Geologiques," a paper on " La Craie de l'lle de Wight." As it is chiefly to him, and to Mr. Whittaker, we owe the systematic description of the Chalk ' Deposits in England, I give the following table, -which I have drawn up from his paper. The arrangement of the zones in the Chalk of the central ridge is as follows, commencing from below : — Cldoritic Marl.— 6ft. 6in. Hard Chalk. — Slightly glauconitic, 5 feet. Only sponges found. 5 Slightly Sandy Chalk.— 16ft. 3in. Mottled white and blue grey. The most common fossils M - are Tarrelites and Scaphites. g Blue-Grey Chalk.— 97ft. 6in. Hard, and with a O conehoidal fracture. Occurs in regular beds of from 1st 8in. to 3ft. 3in., separated from \ other by a few inches of clay. Fossils rare. Itwceramut lubiatuf, Schenb. zone. — 130ft. Hard, dry Chalk, dug for lime (list of 10 fossils œ given). g S Terebratellu sjlacilin, d'Orb. zone. — 65ft. Contains the Chalk-Rock of Whitaker. Regular beds -, of hard, compact Chalk, about 20 inches 2 J thick, separated from each other by a few P inches of clay (13 fossils quoted). Near the top of this zone is a bed of green coated nodules 2 (Chalk-Rock) about 4 inches thick ; above this a is the same white chalk without flints, but less marly than the beds below, and this contains the characteristic fossils in great abundance. It varies from 6 to 9 feet in thickness. Black Plastic Clay. — Like Gault-Clay, and varying from 1 to 4 inches in thickness. 

 P50  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000050.xml 
  

 P75  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000075.xml 
 little stairs point. 51 A number of the fossils appear to have been derived, whilst others seem to have been indiginous. Beneath the lower bed a seam of black, gritty substance occurs, with but few enclosed fossils. It is full of dark, shiny, water-worn pebbles, with quartz, jasper, scales of the Hybodus, and teeth, probably of Saurians. This seam is deposited on the Wealden clays and sands. Beyond the King's Head, at Sandown, the cliffs rise gradually to a high elevation. Between Small Hope Point and Sandown the section in the cliff is not so clearly seen, but the dip of the strata increases from 2° north of Shanklin Chine to 50 under the southern part of Royal Heath. The Perna Mulleti bed, marking the commencement of the Lower Green sand, as at Compton Bay and Atherfield, re-appears on the shore, with its characteristic fossils, under the Sandown Barracks. This bed, being generally covered with sand, can only be seen during the prevalence of certain winds, and at exceptionally low tides. At Little Stairs Point, north of Shanklin Chine, a bed containing Ostrea prionata and. Exogyra sinuata occurs. Westward of the Chine, fossils begin to appear in the fallen blocks on the shore, and between the projecting headland, jutting into the sea, and laved by the waves each recurring tide ; here projects Shanklin ledge, where numerous fossils can be collected at low water. Great interest is attached to the strata at Shanklin Point, from the existence of, at least, two new and perfectly distinct ranges of Gryphæa sinuata. The striking difference between beds of this strata, so near each other as those of Atherfield and Shanklin, bears upon the general question of the division and identification of strata in detached places. East of 

 P82  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000082.xml 
 58 THE LOWER GREENSAND. The whole ending with the white chalk cliffs of Freshwater, which, on a clear day, when the colours of the sea and sky are blended on the distant horizon, and the red and white cliffs are lighted up by the sun, is a scene which deeply impresses the memory of those who admire coast and inland scenery combined. Indication of Conditions under which these Beds were Deposited. " It appears that ' at the close of the Wealden there was a sudden depression of the bed of the great fresh water estuary, and an influx of the sea. The first effect of such an influx would be the destruction of the animals in the estuary not adapted for living in salt water ; hence we find a total destruction of the Wealden animals, the remains of which accumulate towards the point of the junction of that formation with the Lower Greensand — a fact which indicates the nature of the change. Even the Cerithium, although belonging to a genus, many species of which are capable of living in the depths of the sea, was destroyed, notwithstanding that its appearance only in the uppermost beds of the Wealden indicates that its presence there was due to the commencement of the very state of things which eventually destroyed it. That the depression was of some extent, though not, perhaps, of verv many fathoms is indicated by the nature of the animals which lived in the first-formed sea-bed, and which, when they died, were often embedded in the fine and probably fast-depositing mud in the vertical position in which 

 P51  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000051.xml 
 ATHERFIELD CLAY. 29 And the Upper : — Panopæa Neocomiensis ,, mandibula „ elongata ,, plicata Corbula incerta Hemicardium Austeni Cardium sphæroideum Trigonia caudata ,, ornata (var.spmcwa) „ Dædalea Perna Ricordiana Serpula ( Vermetus) concava Gervillia alæformis „ Forbesiana (sole- noides') Pinna Robinaldina Lima Cottaldina Pecten quinque costatus ,, inters triatus Ostrea prionota ,, carinata „ Leymerii Hinnites Leymerii Gryphæa sinuata „ harpa Terebratula sella Ammonites furcatus Area Raulini ,, securis ,, CX.' 1 1 ill isl ,, Carteroni Astarte Multistriata „ substriata „ numismalis Corbis corrugata Venus Striato-costata „ Deshayesii „ Leopoldinus „ inflatus „ Ricordiana „ Cornueliana Nautilus radiatus Heteropora ,, ovalis (var. elongata) Thetis minor P Chisma furcillatum Cyathophora elegans Holaster complanatus Holocystis elegans Mytilus simplex „ lanceolatus „ bellus Perna Mulleti Second Division. Atherfield Clay (60ft.). Dr. Fitton has given to this extensive bed, which is about sixty feet in thickness, and composed of brown and grey clay, the name of " Atherfield Clay," to distinguish it from the "Fuller's earth" of Surrey, to which it bears much resemblance. It is only fossi liferous in its upper part, which contains Ammonites Deshayesii, Pinna Robinaldina, Rostellaria, and flat nodular masses, crowded with shells on their surfaces, also 

 P7  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000007.xml 
 A POPULAR GUIDE TO THE GEOLOGY OF THE ISLE OF WIGHT With a note on its relation to that of the ISLE OF PURBECK. COMPILED AND ARRANGED FROM EXISTING WORKS, WITH NOTES AND OBSERVATIONS BY MARK WM. NORMAN. ILLUSTRATED By a Map, Sections, and figures of some of the Fossils. *tenint»r : Published for the Author at Knight's Library,' 147 and 149, High Street. SIX SHILLINGS NETT, 

 P24  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000024.xml 
 WEALDEN FORMATION, 10 vitation were issued as follows (I relate this to give an idea of the supposed capacity of some of these animals, based on comparative anatomy) : — ' Mr. Hawkins solicits the honour of Professor 's company to a dinner in the Iguanodon, on the 31st December, 1853, at four p.m.' This novel request was written on the wing of a Pterodactyle,* spread before a most graphic etching of the Iguano don, with its socially loaded stomach so practically and easily filled as to tempt all who possibly could do so to accept this singular invitation. There were twenty-one guests around Mr. Hawkins in the body of the Iguanodon, before the upper part of the back and head were completed. In the chair most appropriately sat Professor Owen, who occupied part of the head of this gigantic animal. He was supported by the late Professor Forbes, Mr. Prestwich, the eminent geologist, Mr. Gould, the celebrated ornithologist, with other eminent men. This model represents the natural size of the animal during life, at a palace, where they are not obliged to be content with its pictures or dry bones.' "+ Dr. Mantell's estimate of the length of the Iguanodon was from sixty to seventy feet ; that of other writers, less : the difference in computation depending on the length of the tail. The bones composing the vertebral column are the most numerous remains of the skeleton occuring in the Wealden deposits ; but, unfortunately, the structure of the neural arch and of its processes renders the characteristic parts so liable to injury, •A species of flying lizard; an extinct genus of Saurians. "Ptero dactyle," wing finger. — Owen. t From Davenport's " Garden Me," by the late Dr. E. Wilkins. 

 P61  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000061.xml 
 LOWER GRYPHÆA. 37 The last subdivision (7) consists of a brown plastic clay containing the following miscellaneous fossils : — Panopæa plicata Corbula s'rintnla Gervillia lingaloides Lima Cottaldina Rostellaria Robinaldina Cardium Cornuelinnnm Isocardia ornata Area Raulina Nucula spathulata Venus Vectensis I „ glabra ! Serpula (Vermetns) poly- gonalis Fourth Division. Lower Gryphæa (Exogyra Group), 32 feet. Perna alæformis Gryphæa sinuata Terebratula sella Gervillia alæfor^iis (Perna Sowerby) Lithodomus oblongus „ Gibbsiana A bed of brown ferruginous coloured sand, 20 feet thick, forms the base of the Lower Gr}'phæa group, and is overlaid by two feet of sand, containing Perna alaformis, but chiefly remarkable for the great abun dance of Terebratula sella, one group of which is much larger than the other. I believe the larger species to overlie the smaller in the cliff. This fossil, although occuring in the other beds — that is, the Perna and the Upper beds — is nowhere so plentiful as here ; indeed, the absence of Terebratula is remarkable all through the Crackers group : whilst at the base of the Lower Gryphæa group large blocks often fall from the cliff, almost wholly made up of the Terebratula sella, embedded in a greyish sand. The bed, with Exogyra sinuata, comes to the shore under Atherfield High Cliff, and is the next in succession. At the point where it comes to the base of the cliff it is about two feet thick. 

 P243  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000243.xml 
 185 EAST END. The slip on the east, at East End, occurred at the end of the last century, and that under St. Catherine's, below Gore Cliff, at the beginning of the present. Canon Venables writes, regarding the landslip at East End, "The romantic wildness of this tract is due to a series of landslips, of which the earliest formed a part of the great convulsion by which the whole range of cliffs from Luccombe to Blackgang was laid bare." When Sir Henry Englefield visited East End, about the year 1800, he remarked: "Although deep cracks and evidences of continual subsidence intersect every part, yet the rocky cliff more to the northward seems to have attained perfect stability, and the luxurious coppice must have long grown undisturbed." The two latest slips of any extent took place from 1810 to 1818, carrying away 30 and 50 acres of land respectively. Mr. Webster visited the spot in 181 1, just after the occurrence of the first slip, and thus describes it in a letter to Sir Henry Englefield : " I was surprised at the scene of devastation, which seems to have been occasioned by some recent convulsion of nature. A considerable portion of the cliff had fallen down, strewing the whole ground between it and the sea with its ruins ; huge masses of solid rock started up amidst smaller fragments, whilst immense quantities of loose marl, mixed with stones, and even the s^il above with the wheat still growing on it filled up the spaces between and formed heaps of rubbish which are scarcely accessible. Nothing had resisted the force of the falling rocks. Trees were ievelled with the ground, and many lay half buried in the ruins. The streams were choked up, and pools of water were formed in many 

 P225  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000225.xml 
 st. Catherine's down. 167 In addition to the displacement of flints on the Down the chalk from which they have been derived, and in many places the strata forming the face of the Undercliff have been denuded as far down as the Chloritic Marl and Upper Greensand. The strata cresting the cliff is composed of Chert, Sandstone, and Rag, which, by some unknown agency, have been split and divided into layers, the beds broken into flat masses to a depth of 8 to 10 feet from the surface, and in places becoming imbedded in the before-mentioned drift. Contraction caused by the evaporation of the water held by the rocks may account for the jointing, or even frost. These alluvial and surface deposits bring us to that period which differs but little from our own, and which supplies the first evidence of the existence of man. The Island, unchanged in form, presents now as then the well-known features of English landscape — rich meadows and fertile valleys, their rivers, whether rapidly rushing or gliding slowly, still bear and deposit their gathered burdens, depositing them at their mouths, silent records, which in future ages will act as inter preters of the past. The alluvial meadows are mostly composed of silt, containing rushes and branches of trees intermixed with land and freshwater shells. An alluvial deposit — its original extent much diminished by the inroads of the sea — lies to the north-west of Brook Chine ; it has been drained, its escaping water forming a chine, at the head of which an excellent section is sometimes visible. This bed contains remains of hazel trees, some of large growth, and retain their bark, but other wise shew as little more than decayed wood of a rusty ochreous colour, being highly impregnated with oxide 

 P235  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000235.xml 
 ©mutation ano Hanosltps. fHE contour of the Isle of Wight, and the rounded slopes of its chalk-hills are often broken abruptly by spurs and cliffs, due, in JffiftV most part, to the excessive denudation un- rf _tjj V!ir/-> dergone by the Island in past ages. A good instance occurs in the vale of Newchurch, where the whole of the superincumbent strata down to the Lower Greensand has been removed ; whilst on the eastern side of the same valley even that has disappeared, and we have one of the two patches of Wealden beds exposed. The successive strata, following the chalk, may be seen in many places in the roads leading to the Downs from Messly to the Spur, which terminates St. George's Down, where a thick bed of rounded gravel rests upon the Lower Greensand, forming, with peroxide of iron, a conglomerate, or pudding-stone. On the southern side of the valley is the picturesque village of Newchurch, the houses extending along the ridge in a westerly direction, in a line with the Church, whilst high above them lies a thick bed of gravel, through which a road has been cut called " Skinner's Hill." The gravel marks the former extension of the chalk, the strata themselves having disappeared. M 

 P130  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000130.xml 
 E\)t Cfjalfc formation. "There rolls the deep where grew the tree, Oh Earth, what changes hast thou seen! There, where the long street roars, hath been The stillness of the central sea." — Tennyson. -$0$h Y far the most marked feature of the Island jlj^M is its long range of high Chalk Downs, which r*«x*f%l are covered with short grass, and support no other vegetation but a few scanty patches of n furze and heather. This high ground extends from East to West — from the Culver Cliff to the Needles. It is broken through here and there by numerous gaps (Chines) and depressions, the most important of which are the Valley of the Medina (in a line of fault), in the centre of the Island, and those of the Eastern and Western Yar, at either extremity. The rivers, like the Adur, Arun, and Ouse of Sussex, cut across the ridge, and owe their peculiar position to the denudation of the softer strata through which they run ; for the whole country would be much higher when they first began to flow, and the softer rocks on a level with, if not covering completely over the chalk range. Other depressions, or "bottoms," as they are locally termed, are met with at Arreton, Shorwell, 

 P289  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000289.xml 
 ADDENDUM. 231 of Bonchurch and St. Lawrence, as well as some few of the gentry and inhabitants of Ventnor ; and I am indebted also to the liberality and public spirit evinced by the present committee of the Institute in seconding my endeavours in providing part of the cases and the requisite space for the exhibition of the collection — some of the cases having been about the Institute for a long time in an unarranged condition. These, with others, are (as before stated) now arranged strati graphically, classified and named, as now exhibited ; and I hope will be the means of attracting visitors, and probably those of the inhabitants who may be led by these means to investigate the remains of organic beings that were once the inhabitants of the world, in long and remote ages past. In conclusion, I have selected the following from the introduction to " Petrifactions and their Teachings " as an appropriate explanation of the nature of the objects contained in the Geological Museums. " A distinguished essayist has eloquently and truth fully remarked, that ' everything in nature is engaged in writing its own history : the planet and the pebble are attended by their shadows, the rolling rock leaves its furrows on the mountain side, the river its channel in the soil, the animal its bones in the stratum, the fern and the leaf inscribe their modest epitaphs on the coal, the falling drop sculptures its story on the sand and on the stone, — not a footstep on the snow or on the ground, but traces in characters more or less en during the record of its progress.' On the correct interpretation of these autobiographies, inscribed on the rocks and strata hy the countless myriads of beings which have successively inhabited the earth, through 

 P93  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000093.xml 
 67 ATHERFIELD BEDS. Here, perhaps, a little information will not be out of place as to the best means to be pursued for the purpose of examining the Atherfield beds. From Ventnor, via Blackgang, the excursion can be taken by either a private conveyance, or by any of the different coaches. The Geologist can, if he chooses, alight at the Blackgang Hotel and descend to the shore through the Bazaar, at which visitors are ex pected to make a purchase for the privilege of descending the well-kept path down the Chine. But to the Geologist in search of specimens, the route which takes him to Freshwater, returning by Chale, is preferable, when, on alighting at Chale Church, he will turn down the Military Road, until the head of Whale Chine is reached, a little beyond which a footpath leads through a field to the top of the cliff, following which the path will lead him to the Coast Guard Station ; beyond to the left of the flagstaff he can descend over hummicks and hollows to the shore, over the disintegrated clays, shales and sands ; or sometimes there is a rude platform or path, made by the coastguards and fishermen, to enable them to haul up their boats ; pursuing this westward, the Geologist arrives at a spot called Tie Pits, where large masses of the Lower Perna bed are accumulated. He thus may work his way along the shore up to Ladder Chine, ascending which a footpath leads to the Military Road, Chale Church being again reached in the evening, in time to return by coach. The excursion to Atherfield ought to be extended to two or more visits, as, to examine the strata from Blackgang Chine and its neighbourhood thoroughly, as well as the insides of Whale and Walpen Chines, 

 P194  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000194.xml 
 140 TERTIARY SERIES stitutes, formed of Ostrea flabellula, crowded together, with numerous other marine shells, many of which are of Barton types."* It may here be remarked that from the Chalk to Colwell Bay, round the base of Headon Hill, and passing over the Bagshot Sands, noted previously as unfossiliferous, with the exception of the remarkable leaf-bed, the shore is strewn with the debris of the strata. This has either fallen from above, or been washed by the sea from the yielding clays and sands. It lines the shore in heterogenous confusion. Large blocks of Limestone lie scattered here and there, from the semi-tufaceous to the more solid and compact kinds, all crowded with the fossil shells of Helix, Limnæa and Planorbis, and containing also seeds of Chara. The shells in the limestone are in an excellent state of preservation, but their fragile nature demands the utmost care in extracting them. Paludina lenta is found in groups on blocks of reddish-brown Septaria. " Chara Wrightii occurs abundantly throughout the Headon series, but especially in the bottom layers (Neritina bed) of the Middle Headon beds. (J. W. Salter.) The following shells were collected from the Venus bed in Cohvell Bay in December, 1852, by the Geological Survey : — Ostrea flabellula (crepidula of Deshayes) Venus incrassata (Sowerby) Cerithium cinctum Fusus labiatus Cyrena obovata Natica (epiglotum ?) * Mem. Geol. Surv., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 60. 

 P217  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000217.xml 
 LATER TERTIARY DATE. 159 grounds, and therefore, by way of distinction, called " high-level gravel " ; and secondly, deposits of a more recent age than the former, to which the term " low level gravel " may, in many cases, be applied with propriety. The high-level (or older) gravel was deposited after the elevation and denudation of the Chalk, while the low-level gravel was formed in great part from the waste of the older gravel, when the brick-earth and other deposits of later date were thrown down in the combes, and in the slopes of the lower ground. The thin covering of angular chalk flints upon the higher portions of the chalk-range, as Beacon and Afton Downs, at the western extremity of the Island, is said by Mr. Godwin Austen, at page 2 of Professor Forbes' Memoir, to be ' the residue of that portion of chalk which has been dissolved away,' and the Downs are stated to furnish ' good illustrations of the rate of waste over calcareous surfaces from the action of rain water alone."* I presume that during a period of slow but continual upheaval of the land, a river cut its way through the mass of the " clay with flints," flowing in two directions, one eastward near Bembridge, the other westward, emptying itself into the sea near Freshwater, and depositing this gravel, the waste of the " clay with flints," on its banks to such an extent, as in some places to form low cliffs. The rounded and water worn nature of a large number of the flints would seem to corroborate my view. Many of them have been subjected to so much attrition as to resemble the pebbles of a sea shore. • Mem. Geol. Surv., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 43. 

 P157  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000157.xml 
 WHITE CHALK. 109 is extensively used as a pickle amongst the older inhabitants, and still forms a minor industry of the Island, although the task involves the same risk of life as the egg collecting. Shakespeare's unrivalled description of the cliffs at Dover would apply equally to those at Freshwater : " How fearful And dizzy 'tis, to cast one'B eyes so low ! The crows, and choughs, that wing the midway air, Show scarce so gross as beetles : half way down Hangs one that gathers Samphire ; dreadful trade ! Metbinks, he seems no bigger than his head : The fishermen that walk npon the beach, Appear like mice : and yon tall anchoring bark, Diminished to her cock ; her cock, her buoy, Almost too small for sight ; the murmuring snrge That on the unnumber'd idle pebbles chafes, Cannot be heard so bigh." — King Lear, Act iv., Scene vi. The cliffs at Freshwater, like those on the opposite coast of Dorsetshire, have been excavated by the sea, and exhibit deep caverns and outlying masses. On the eastern side of the Bay, two isolated masses of chalk, which probably by reason of their superior hardness have long survived the destruction of the strata, of which they once formed a part, stand out boldly from the sea. One of these is called the " Deer Pound," the other the " Arched Rock," the latter forming one of the most important features of the place. The same agent that separated it from the adjacent cliff has tunnelled it through in the form of a rough arch, that from some points of view exhibits a singularly beautiful gothic outline, which, to be seen in its grandest aspect, must be viewed from the beach. 

 P191  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000191.xml 
 FLUVIO marine series. 137 purpose of producing vitriol. The sand is dug out of some very valuable mines, which are the property of David Urry, Esq., near Yarmouth, and from thence sent to London and Bristol for the use of the glass manufacturers." It is said that between 1850 and 1755, 21,984 tons of the sand were shipped from Yarmouth, principally to London and Bristol. In the brick pits south of Gunville, and in several other parts of the Island, the Upper Bagshot beds and the Barton Clay are seen in a vertical position. No fossils are found except at Whitecliff Bay, and here only a few casts of bivalve shells were met with, not sufficiently well preserved for the cabinet. Fluvio Marine Series. These formations were so called by the late Prof. Forbes, and the name was subsequently adopted by Prof. Bristow, who makes the following remarks about them : " The fluvio-marine formation, which extends over the northern portion of the Island, forms an undulating tract of country, the scenery of which presents a marked difference to that of the more open district covered by the cretaceous rocks on the south, owing to the greater abundance of woods with which the surface is in many places covered. The land situated on the limestones is of a more fertile descrip tion than that based upon the clays or sands, but over a considerable part of the Island mapped as Fluvio marine there is a thick deposit of flint gravel spread over the surface, which conceals the underlying strata, and causes the agricultural nature of the soil to bear no relation whatever to the rocks beneath. From the 

 P186  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000186.xml 
  

 P250  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000250.xml 
 192 DENUDATION AND LANDSLIPS. of land have been carried away at Gurnard, and the Solent has been much widened. Indeed, when I was a boy, a man occupied a cottage and a garden (long since washed away) which I visited. That old man told of the time when in his youth he had played in green fields then existing on the site of the present white buoy (two-tenths of a mile from the shore) which now warns vessels from the Gurnard Ledges. These ledges consist of rocks of the dislocated Bembridge Limestone stratum, which, being harder than the Tertiary Clays formerly lying under and over them, have remained for the waves to complete their disinte gration. The former superincumbent and adjacent clays have been successively carried away by the same, or even with greater speed by the force of an earlier, narrower, and swifter rush of water than can in the present day be seen in progress. Although I can personally testify to the encroachments of the sea at Gurnard, still it is evident that the coast districts between West Cowes and Yarmouth have equally been encroached upon, at one time more rapidly at one spot, and then equally or even more rapidly at another, either pointing to the fact of the great rapidity with which the Solent has widened its breadth. The elephant stratum was deposited during the existence of the human race, for side by side with bones and tusks of elephants, remains of human beings have been discovered in other regions.* Beyond a doubt elephants could not have dwelt within so circumscribed an area • That early man saw and hunted the mammoth and other extinct animals. is evident from the pictures he has left us, engraved on pieces of bone. One of these, a mammoth, is drawn with masterly skill. It was found in a cave at La Madelaine, France, and a figure of it can be seen in Boyd-Dawkins' " Early Man in Britain," 1880, p. 105, with many others; or in Geikie, "Text Book of Geology," 1882, p. 905, 

 P68  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000068.xml 
 the lower greensand. 44 associated with Terebratida sella and other shells. About 200 yards east of Walpen Chine a bed of hard grey gritty rock commences on the shore, running upwards, and following the direction of the stratum, large blocks of which are frequently detached from the cliff, and fall on the shore. These blocks contain rounded masses of a dark chocolate colour, and are often crossed by lines of spar. These concretions are from six inches to a foot in diameter. They are sometimes found loose on the shore, having been detached from the grey rock by the wash of the sea. They are enclosed in an outer coating, which, on being broken, discloses an inner mass, from which I have obtained the following fossils : — Venus Vectensis Thetis major Ammonites Deshayesii Small ancylocerus (? Toxo- Terebratula sella Ammonites Martini ceras) Tenth Division. Upper Gryphæa Group (16 feet). In the lower twelve feet of sands and clays — some of which are ferruginous and oolitic, similar to those already noticed as forming group 4 — there are three or four ranges of Exogyra sinuata (large oysters). This shell also occurs in the greenish sand forming the upper portion of this, which marks the limit of its range, in an upward direction. Small fragments of vegetable remains occur, not only in these beds, but nearly throughout the entire formation. In the lower 

 P74  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000074.xml 
 50 the lower greensand. ness of about 200 feet ; the Middle and Lower, 200 feet ; the Upper Greensand, 100 feet ; and the Gault 50 feet. According to this statement the Gault here appears to have lost half its thickness, as compared to other sections in the Island, where it averages over 100 feet. The Perna beds correspond with those of Ather field, and contain similar fossils. The Wealden deposits occupy the middle of the Bay, and on the west the sands and clays of the Lower Greensand reappear, and form the cliffs from Sandown to Shanklin. Sandown Bay comprises, therefore, a double series of deposits of the Cretaceous system, thrown into an anticlinal axis by the elevation of the Wealden, which constitutes the axis of the line of coast. One section of these ferruginous strata forms a very lofty and perpendicular cliff, distinguished by the name of Red Cliff, which bears a striking contrast to those of the neighbouring chalk cliffs. The lower portion of the strata rests upon the Wealden. As at Atherfield and Compton Bay, it consists of two beds, an Upper and Lower. The Lower is much permeated with iron, whilst the Upper is much harder. They are about the same thickness, being about five feet together, and are very fossiliferous, of which the undermen tioned are the most characteristic : — Corbis corrngata Trigonia dædalea ,, alæformis Gryphæ sinuata Lima (spec.) Mytilus lanceolatus Mya truncata Terebratula sella Astarte obovata Venus Holucystis elegans Perna Mnlleti Nautilus radiatus Pecten quinqneeostatus Gryphœ sinuata 

 P158  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000158.xml 
 110 CHALK FORMATION. A short distance from it, another imposing block occurs, called the " Stag Rock." Freshwater Cave, in the west side of the Bay, is formed entirely of masses of fractured rock, and access can only be effected at low water ; its entrance is an archway about three yards in diameter at the base, and some twenty feet in height. In these outliers, as in the cliffs generally, the layers of flint may be seen, marking the white chalk like black lines ruled diagonally across a sheet of white paper. To the east of the Bay is Nodes Beacon, and the cliffs take a gradual rise of 617 feet, equalling those of High Down. The western side of this beacon is called The Main Bench, the eastern side, The Nodes. The face of the cliffs is tunnelled by numerous cavities, through one of which a cold spring of fresh water constantly flows. Two of these tunnels — respectively 200 feet and 90 feet long — are called Neptune's Caves ; those known as " Lord Holm's Parlour, Kitchen, and Cellars," are interesting, for his lordship is said to have entertained his guests in them, when he was Governor of the Island, a century and a quarter ago. Bar Cave and Frenchman's Hole are each 90 feet long. Rye's Nest, above the beach, is said to be between 500 feet and 600 feet in length ; then come several others of which Preston's Bower alone deserves mention. Beyond the bold abrupt headland of Sun Corner is Scratchell's Bay, celebrated for its arched cavern, due again to the action of the sea ; this rises to an altitude of 400 feet, forming a half dome, beneath which, looking seaward, nothing meets the spectator's eye but the ocean, its restless waves rolling and tossing in apparent 

 P67  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000067.xml 
 walpen and ladder sands. 43 noides, Terebratula sella, as also the following fossils, which are amongst the most characteristic found in this bed :— Ostrea (two species) Gryphæa sinuata Mvtilus lanceolatus Pinna (?) Nautilus radiatus Panopæa mandibula Fern fronds of Lonchopteris Mantelli Bones of reptiles Some of the fossils are encrusted with crystallised spar, and many are wholly converted into that sub stance, more especially the smaller Ammonites. These nodules were named "Captain Peturson's Nodules" by the old collectors, in Dr. Fitton and Captain Ibbetson's time. The Crioceras beds extend into the sea in a south easterly direction, in the shape of hard ledges, which follow the dip of the strata, and are often denuded, especially after an east wind of long duration, when the nodules are laid bare, and their fossil contents exposed amongst which, associated with other fossils, are the Crioceras, coiled up on the ledge in a level zone. They are also found at the base of the cliff, and in the bed of the stream which flows down the centre of Whale Chine, having fallen out of the cliffs forming the sides of the Chine. Ninth Division. The Walpen and Ladder Sands (42 feet) These sands consist of greenish and grey sand, with a layer of large nodules at the base, containing numerous fossils for about six feet. Above is a bed of variable thickness, composed principally of serpulæ, 

 P5  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000005.xml 
  

 P281  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000281.xml 
 ADDENDUM. 223 severed from the trunk before the solidification of the sands and muds which entombed it. In the English Wealden these whole specimens are rare, and^we must turn our attention to the Liassic Rocks if we wish to see perfect examples of fossil reptiles. Remains of birds, or of mammals, have not as yet been found in the Wealden : but as we know they existed fn Jurassic times, in a modified form, we may expect our search to be some day rewarded. From what has been stated above, the vast impor tance of this Wealden series will be apparent, and we can carry our thoughts back to the time when the Wealden river, like the Mississippi of to-day, drained an immense tract of country, and brought down and deposited at its mouth the remains of its inhabitants and the dwellers upon its banks. 

 P106  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000106.xml 
  

 P266  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000266.xml 
 208 THE HUMAN PERIOD. bones, and portions of a human skull ; the third, the centre of the floor bore traces of a fire, and contained much charcoal ; the fourth, bones, stags' horns, broken pottery, and vitrified stones (probably pot-boilers) ; the fifth, human and animal bones, with horn cores of bos longifrous ; the sixth, Roman relics, pottery, bones of pig, ox, portion of a human skull, human jaw bone, flint flakes, stone balls and marbles ; and the ninth, animal bones." These remains offer indisputable evidence that on the departure of the Romans their dwellings were in habited by the aborigines. The refinement of the Romans would have forbidden such rude usage of their tessellated floors to which they have been undoubtedly subjected; but among savage tribes of the past, as of the present, the habit of building rude fires for cooking purposes and leaving the remains of the repast scattered on the ground is universal. Commodore Wilks, of the U. S. Navy, in his narra tive of the " United States Exploring Expedition," published in 1852, gives the following description of the condition of the inhabitants of Tierra del Fuego : — "The huts are generally built close to the shore at the head of some small Bay, in a secluded spot, and sheltered from the prevailing winds. They are built of boughs, or small trees, stuck in the earth and brought together on the top, where they are firmly bound by bark, sedge, and twigs. Smaller branches are then interlaced, forming a compact wicker work, and on this grass turf and bark are laid, making the hut quite warm, and impervious to the wind and snow, though not quite to the rain. The usual dimensions of these huts are seven or eight feet in diameter, and about four 

 P252  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000252.xml 
 DENUDATION AND LANDSLIPS. 194 bearing upon the geological aspect of the question, leaving the probable date of the tin trade to be settled by the antiquaries. There cannot be a doubt but the depression of the Chalk strata, extending from the Needles to the coast of Dorsetshire, would greatly aid the sea in breaking through the barrier and of forming the existing channel at that end of the Island, between the Needles and Hurst Castle. The spot selected for this latter building is most singularly situated at the end of a long bank of shingle, extending in a curved line nearly two miles from the Hampshire coast. It must be of great solidity, as the depth of the channel at the beginning of the present century, close to the Castle, was no less than thirty-three fathoms, and the tide pours through it with such rapidity that a four oared boat can scarcely stem it. Hurst Castle, as I have before stated, is situated at the extremity of a tongue of shingle (or probably clay flints). It was originally one of Henry VIII.'s forts, and is now an important signal station, commanding the passage of the Solent, and has a battery for the defence of the Channel, being immediately opposite the forts of the Isle of Wight. Architecturally it con sists of a tower (with the date 1535) flanked by a long granite wall, with embrasures for heavy guns. 

 P47  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000047.xml 
 perna mulleti beds. 27 inches above there is a stratum of sandy clay, con taining marine shells. The distance between the layers of fluviatile and marine shells is, therefore, but a few inches, so that portable masses, containing characteristic shells of both formations, may be ex tracted. Although these are not in a good state of preservation ; still, many slabs of the harder layers of the Wealden may be collected, bearing on their surfaces the diamond-shaped enamelled scales and spines of the Hybodus, also Cyclas and Potamides. One of the layers of septaria contains fish remains ; also reptilian remains are by no means uncommon. The lowest beds of the Lower Greensand rest imme diately upon the last named deposits, and are named the Perna beds, the lowest of which rise from the base of the cliff, a short distance below the signal staff of the Coast Guard Station, and form a ledge, extend ing to a long distance out to sea, called Atherfield Bench, which is visible at low water. These beds consist in part of a blue sandy clay and greenish sand, much harder in the upper than in the lower part, and characterised by the prevalence and abundance of the Perna Mulleti, a fossil not occurring in any other part of the formation. These beds, in common with the other strata at Atherfield, take their rise from the base of the cliff, and are prolonged in an upward direction to about from 200 to 300 yards beyond the Point, and run out on the top of the cliff at a spot called " Tie Pits." Resting, as they do, on the Wealden clays, the stratum of which they are composed is always in a state of disintegration, and vast blocks of it, full of fossils, are continually falling on the beach, where they are attacked by the 

 P182  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000182.xml 
 130 tertiary series. publishing his reports and figuring his specimens in the volumes of the Palæontographical Society. Middle Bagshot Series. " The strata comprised between the well-known glasshouse sands at the base of Headon Hill, and the pipe-clay-bearing sands and clays overlying the London Clay, and grouped together by Mr. Joshua Trimmer as the Middle Bagshot series, were subdivided by him into Barton Clay and Bracklesham Beds. The latter are represented in Alum Bay by clays and marls in the lower part, and by white, yellow, and crimson sands above. The lower beds are remarkable for the quantity of vegetable matter contained in them ; not, however, in the shape of leaves, as is the case in some of the Lower Bagshot beds, but in the form of lignite, constituting solid beds from 15m. to 2ft. 3m. thick. Four of these beds, when fully displayed, constitute conspicuous objects in the cliff — where they project out of the "softer strata — and on the shore, from their black and coal-like appearance. These beds of coal were recently more than usually well displayed, in conse quence of the prevalence of long continued wet weather having worn away the soft intervening strata in which they are imbedded. On examining them during a brief visit made to the Island, in company with Prof. Ramsay, during the Autumn of 1860, it appeared evident that the beds in question occur more in the manner of ordinary coal than of mere lignite. Like true coal, each bed was based upon a stratum of clay, containing, apparently, the rootlets of plants, as in the underclay of the true coal-measures."* • Mem. Geol. Surv., Bristow, Isle of Wight. 1862, p. 4.1. 

 P95  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000095.xml 
 Wqt ffiault. jbfffr\^( HE Gault — a more or less argillaceous sub- •rW stance, known in the neighbourhood of the \fjjt$ff Undercliff under the names of " Blue J*$*\ Slipper," " Black Slipper," and " Platnore," V?4***» the latter name alluding more particularly to the lower or harder portion of the deposit, while the former refers to the softer and more unctious part — generally speaking, differs somewhat in the Undercliff from the state in which it is found elsewhere. It is neither of so great a thickness, nor so perfect a clay, being less clammy, more arenaceous, and containing fewer fossils than in any other situations where it occurs. Most of the Gault found in the Undercliff is, with few exceptions, in loosened masses, apparently pressed out by the superincumbent weight when the Landslip took place which caused the formation of the Undercliff. The* deposits frequently separate, and the extraordinary manner in which this is shown occasionally, on a small scale, may often be witnessed, when portions of the mass, after a thaw, or long continued rains, slip over each other. I observed, some years ago, below St. Catherine's Down, a slip 

 P178  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000178.xml 
 126 TERTIARY SERIES. parts of Hampshire, on the east as well as on the west, from which it has been separated by the depression caused by the folding of the beds and their subsequent denudation. London Clay. This next highest member of the series also extends from east to west, and from its inclined, almost vertical position, has an outcrop scarcely wider than its thick ness. At Alum Bay it has a depth of upward of 200ft., and consists of alternating clays, sands, and ironstones, with septaria. In the lower portion is a bed of dark clay, containing a zone of Pholadomya margaritacea, the shells exhibiting a pearly nacre when in good preserva tion. During my first visit to Alum Bay, while working these beds, I was fortunate in finding a small crab. The junction between the Plastic and London Clays is well defined in White Cliff Bay by red mottled clays, and still more clearly by a bed composed of rounded flint pebbles, similar to those found in Sandown Bay, but on a much smaller scale, being only 2 to 3 inches thick. This bed is more conspicuous in White Cliff than at Alum Bay. It is the " Basement Bed " of Professor Prestwich, and is well described by him in the following passage : — " In the fine section at Alum Bay there may be seen, at a distance of 94 feet from the Chalk, a thin and insignificant layer, not a foot thick, of rather large (egg-sized) rounded black flint pebbles imbedded in a scanty yellow sand and brown clay, and separating the important mass of the London Clay on the one side from that of the mottled clays on the other and to the former of which it forms the base. 

 P230  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000230.xml 
 172 TERTIARY series. and used for house decorations. No further attempt being made, the rock, with its massive and rugged unyielding strength stands undisturbed. 

 P231  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000231.xml 
 Œf)t ftrti Beacij. W| 'y-T is well known that the southern shores of if L.K) Isle of Wight are covered to a great depth by a finely-rounded reddish-brown i-^T beach shingle, the pebbles varying in size T from a large bean to a small shot. This deposit is continually drifted by the currents in an easterly direction. It travels fastest when the wind blows from the west, and if a south-west wind springs up, it is driven into the small bays and inlets along the southern coast. It is still partly confined to Chale, Brixton and Brook Bays by a reef of rocks (Rockenend) which stretches from the upper part of the shore for some distance into the sea, the extent of this reef being traceable by the turbulence of the waves, tossing and beating against each other until the sea is white with foam. Composed of the harder portions of the strata, it has so far resisted the denuding forces which removed its upper surfaces, and forms, like Atherfield Ledge, one of the extremities of Chale Bay, the cliffs of which consisting of soft sands and clays have become hollowed out into the form of a half-moon, whilst its base extends in a straight line between the two headlands. 

 P87  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000087.xml 
 63 BLACKGANG CHINE. Blackgang Chine. " This has been reckoned one of the great ' lions ' of the Isle of Wight (since the latter part of last century up to the present day), which everybody sees, and with which almost everybody is disappointed. So much has been said about its ' savage grandeur,' its ' gloomy horrors,' ' nature in all her primæval wild ness,' etc., etc., that when the visitor finds no more than a bare ravine, with crumbling sides of dirty looking sandstone and blue-black clay, and discovers that the ' cascade whose bright waters contrast with the gloomy cave behind,' is the tiniest of driblets, falling in a shower of drops over a dark semi-circular recess in the cliff, he is inclined to dub the whole an imposture, and refuse it its due meed of admiration. The roads and paths which have been formed, the houses and walls which have been built, and other marks of habitation which surround it, have greatly detracted from the original wildness of the scene ; but those who come with moderate expectations, and try to forget all the prints of it they have seen, representing a grand cascade dashing over an awful precipice, black as night, will find a very remarkable ravine, presenting some striking features, both during the descent and on arriving at the bottom, which will certainly repay them for their trouble and fatigue. Another description states : ' The ravine is bare of trees or shrub, but it does not retreat far enough, there is not depth enough for solemnity or gloom — at least, in ordinary weather.' A kind of semi-circular combe has been hollowed out in the dark marl (Gault), over the top of which — where 

 P108  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000108.xml 
 76 THE UPPER GREENSAND. logical character as the bed below, but more compact, which, excepting the large Ammonites rostratus, contains but few fossils. Resting upon these beds is a thick bed of Rag, and seven alternating beds of soft sandstone, divided by another layer of large conical flattened concretions called by quarrymen " Whills," which contain fossils such as Limas, Pectens, Terebratulœ, etc. These again are succeeded by two bands of darkly streaked laminated sandstone containing a species of Cardiaster. with a Panopæa, this is called the " Black Band." Resting on it is a layer of Rag, with a bed of soft sandstone of a light grey colour, sparsely fossiliferous ; succeeded by another bed of Rag of one foot, which rests upon a band of light grey sandstone of about four feet thick ; it contains no fossils except large groups of semi-silicified sponge-like bodies. Another bed of hard blue Rag one foot thick succeeds this, upon which is deposited a thick bed of close-grained grey sandstone of great economic im portance, being in much requisition for building purposes, which, with a soft bed of the same material on the top, is about five feet thick. It is locally termed the "freestone bed," and is more compact and harder than the beds below it. This bed is quarried and sawn into blocks for quoins, etc., of buildings, and is conspicuous for its thickness compared with the other beds along the face of the cliffs which form the great wall of the Undercliff between Ventnor and Blackgang. It is from about 32 feet to 34 feet below the Lower Chalk. Next in ascending order is an upper bed of Rag one foot thick, on which rests the so-called "Firestone" 

 P3  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000003.xml 
  

 P188  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000188.xml 
 TERTIARY SERIES. 134 Before closing these remarks on the Lower and Middle Bagshot series, a short description of the coloured sands may not be out of place, I will give it in Sir Henry Englefield's words, for he, more than any other writer, makes his narrative both graphic and poetical : — " The magical repose of this side of the Bay is wonderfully contrasted by the torn forms and vivid colouring of the clay cliffs on the opposite side ; these do not, as at Whitecliff, present rounded headlands clothed with turf and shrubs, but offer a series of points of a scalloped form, and which are often sharp and pinnacled. " Deep, rugged chasms divide the strata in many places, and not a trace of vegetation appears in any part ; all is wild ruin. " The tints of the cliffs are so bright and so varied, that they have not the aspect of anything natural. Deep, purplish red, dusky blue, bright ochreous yellow, grey nearly approaching to white, and absolute black succeed each other as sharply defined as the stripes in silk ; and after rains the sun, which, from about noon to its setting in Summer, illuminates them more and more, giving a brilliancy to some of these nearly as resplendent as the bright lights on real silk. Small vessels often lie in this Bay for the purpose of loading chalk and sand, and they serve admirably to shew the majestic size of the cliffs, under whose side they lie, diminished almost to nothing."* Mr. Webster also notices these sands, as the following words will show : — * Sir Henry Englefield, " Picturesque Account oi the Island," p. 81. 

 P193  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000193.xml 
 headon beds. 139 Lower Headon Beds. The thick beds of limestone which occur in this division of the series at Headon Hill, thin out in Totlands and Colwell Bay, disappearing altogether at Whitecliff Bay. The bed of sand forming Warden Ledge in Colwell Bay is extremely fossiliferous, and is a representative of one of the beds of limestone at Headon Hill. The series consists of clays, marls, sands, and limestones, and has a thickness of 67 feet at Headon, diminishing to 40 in Whitecliff Bay. The best section is to be seen in Weston Chine. Middle Headon Beds. " Called the ' Upper Marine Formation,' in con formity with the arrangement of Professor Webster. These deposits, however, at Headon Hill, appear to have been formed under brackish water conditions, for although Oysters, Cytherea incrassata, Nucula deltoidea, Natica depressa, Buccinum labiatum, and other sea-shells are common ; the upper and lower beds abound in Potamides ventricosus, P. concabus, P. cinctus, Veritina concava Vematurs, etc. A short distance further north, in Colwell Bay, the upper and lower beds are still marked by the presence of brackish-water shells, but the central part assumes a distinctly marine character. Where it forms the base of the cliff it is ver-y favourably displayed for examination, and its marine character becomes strik ingly apparent in the large oyster-banks which it con- 

 P6  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000006.xml 
  

 P27  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000027.xml 
 SANDOWN BAY. 13 of the slabs, which split readily, and the shells are exposed in relief on their surfaces. The most favourable time to visit Sandown Bay is, as at Brook, at the beginning of the ebb tide, and after a storm. On the floor of the strand, as well as the shore, isolated vertebræ and other detached bones occur, and are often found associated with pieces of lignite and fragments of silicified wood. The stems of a plant allied to Zamia, and bones of the Iguanodon, have also been found in the Bay, eastward of the new Fort. Further east, at the junction of the Lower Green sand with the Wealden, the Perna beds are seen rest ing on the Weald clays, as at Atherfield Point and Compton Bay. " The Wealden at the south-west of the Island passes inland, constituting the low grounds of Thorn Cross, Marsh Green, Mottistone, and Brixton, and meets the coast at Compton Grange, Brook, and Sudmore Chines. Ac the former a similar section to that of Sandown Bay is exposed. The extremity of Brook Point is about one mile from the rise of the Wealden, under Afton Down, where the strata have a much more vertical direction than at its eastern limit, following the direc tion of the superincumbent strata before described. The total thickness of the Wealden is stated to average 2,000 feet. It has been traced about 200 miles, from west to east, — from Lulworth Cove, to near Boulogne, in France ; and about 220 miles from north-west to south-east, — from Whitchurch, in Buckinghamshire, to Beauvois, in France. The Wealden of Hanover and Westphalia has been shown to correspond so closely, not only in its organic remains, but also in its litho logical character, with the English, that Sir Charles 

 P127  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000127.xml 
 chloritic and fossiliferous marl. 89 In the neighbourhood of Cambridge there are deposits of the like material, which command a very extensive sale in the Eastern Counties, whilst here, in the Isle of Wight, tons of it are washed into the sea annually. We insert the following humorous notice of the " Phosphate Diggins," from the Hants Independent of the day : — " Another California. — A speculation has been recently entered into, and is in active operation at the back of the Island, by some enterprising individuals from the metropolis, which has been an object of extreme wonderment to the natives for these last few weeks, more particularly to those who reside near the spot in question ; and if the object sought for by these parties, much of which has already been obtained, is not rich in the precious metal which distinguishes the quartz of California, they must entertain the idea of speedily transmuting it into gold, if they intend to defray the immense cost of procuring it. In order to enlighten our readers as to the circumstances which have come to our knowledge relating to this matter, we must remind them that on the edge of the High Uppercliff, which extends from Blackgang to Ventnor, there creeps out at intervals a stratum of fossils ; one of these, situate exactly over that wild-looking spot at the back of the celebrated Chalybeate spring, has been long known to the fishermen on the coast as abounding in the most perfect specimens, but excepting a pecuniary reward for the discovery of an extraordinary antediluvian monster, from some curious geologist, it was never imagined or suspected that it possessed the 

 P114  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000114.xml 
 80 THE UPPER GREENSAND. rostratus, a short time ago, in the Quarry at the Railway Station, which I have never met before with above the five feet building stone, upwards of thirty feet below. The following fossils are found in this division, a large portion of which have their equivalents in the Chalk Marl ;— Pleurotomaria Nautilus pseudo-elegaDS „ expansus Turrilites tuberculatus Belemnites minimus Ammonites rostratus Hamites elegans Pecten orbicularis ,, quinquecostatus Teeth and vertebræ of Shark (Lamna) Saurian remains Mantelli „ varians „ Comptoni „ Vectensis Exogyra conica Rhynchonella limbata Terebratula biplicata Trochocyathus Teeth of Lamna Ostrea carinata „ vesicularis Pecten asper In few places is the deposition of the Upper Green sand or the position of its layers of strata better shown than in the journey between Ventnor and Blackgang. Among the different views of its cliffs is one from the hill which crowns the headland called Woody Point, a central outlook from which the observer is enabled to take in the whole of the escarpment, from east to west, at a glance, and the whole of the geological features of the district. The undulations of the Chalk Downs, and the short fine turf with which they are covered, form, by their verdure, a background to the cliffs below. The formation varies very little in thickness in the Island. In Compton Bay it is 150 feet thick, and 

 P181  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000181.xml 
 LOWER BAGSHOT SERIES. 129 Lower Bagshot Series " The junction between the London Clay and the Lower Bagshot beds is clearly shown in Whitecliff Bay, the former being represented there by ferruginous brown clay, and the latter by pale grey sands weathering nearly white, and containing occasionally thin laminæ of pipe clay. Thirty-seven feet of these sands, clays, and pipe-clays intervene between the upper part of the London Clay and a band of sandstone which runs out to sea at the base of the yellow micaceous sands which constitute the greater portion of the Lower Bagshot series there. Above them is a bed of rounded pebbles of flint 18 inches thick."* These beds are unfossiliferous both at Alum Bay and Whitecliff Bay, with the exception of the Pipe Clay band at the former. The Bagshot beds between the London Clay and the Fluvio Marine series were first named and divided by Mr. Trimmer, of the Geological Survey, in 1850, into Upper, Middle, and Lower, which divisions have since been adopted and retained. The Lower Bagshot beds are 660 feet thick in Alum Bay. They consist of a series of variously coloured unfossiliferous sands and clays, with alternating beds of iron sandstone, and clays with leaves, seeds, and seed vessels of plants, indicating a sub-tropical climate. About 20 genera, and over 50 species of plants were named by De la Harpe and Salter, and some of them were figured in the Memoirs of the Geological Survey for 1862. The entire work of classifying these Tertiary plants has been undertaken by Mr. Starkie Gardiner, who is » Mem. Geol. Surv., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 39. I 

 P195  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000195.xml 
 FOSSILS FROM HEADON HILL. 

 P239  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000239.xml 
 THE UNDERCLIFF. 181 There are numerous terraces on the sides of the Downs ; those on Steephill Down, between Ventnor and St. Lawrence, are well defined. Seen at a distance they look like roads cut artificially in the slopes. A near view, shows that their surfaces, unlike roads, are not horizontal, but almost coincide with the slope of the hills on which they occur. They have also been formed by denudation. Landslips, like those which take place occasionally round the coast of the British Islands, can be compared with earthquakes, in their work of devastation and ruin. Alike their work of destruction is carried out swiftly and without warning. The land, already saturated by land springs, and broken up by falls from its own weight and frosts, yields itself a helpless mass to the never ceasing attacks of the sea in its front. " The scenery of the irregular terrace (strangely called the Undercliff), with its boundary lines of cliff above and below, is too well known to require a des cription The upper cliff, or rampart, of chalk and greensand is very instructive, as throwing light on the mode in which many inland escarpments may have originated. It is true that there is room for differences of opinion concerning the relative share the sea and fresh water may have had in the formation of this remarkable wall of rock ; but I think there can be little doubt that, if the sea had never encroached on the south coast of the Isle of Wight, the upper line of cliff would never have existed. It is the effect of a coast slip or a series of coast slips, and may correctly be called an indirect, or supra-marine sea-cliff."* • Mackintosh, " Scenery of England and Wales." p. 38. 

 P13  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000013.xml 
 LIST OF PLATES. To face page Fossils of the Wealden 24 Fossils of the Perna Mulleti beds - - 26 Fossils of the Perna Mulleti beds - - 28 Fossils of the Clay and Crackers Rocks - 34 Fossils of the Gault - - - 72 Fossils of the Upper Greensand - - 74 Fossils of the Upper Greensand - - 76 Fossils of the Chloritic Marl 86 Fossils of the Chalk Marl - -' - - 96 Fossils of the Chalk Marl - - - 98 Fossils of the Chalk Marl - - - 100 Fossils of the Upper Chalk - - - 116 Fossils of the London Clay -- - - 132 Fossils from Headon Hill - - - 140 Fossils from Headon Hill - - 150 Section of Lower Greensand, Atherfield - 25 Section of Upper Greensand - - - 73 Section across the east end of the Isle of Wight 102 Section at Whitecliff Bay - - - 124 View of the Needles - 107 View of Gore Cliff beneath St. Catherine's Down 82 View of Blackgang Chine - - - - 64 Geological Map of the Island - - (frontispiece) 

 P110  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000110.xml 
  

 P17  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000017.xml 
 BROOK POINT. 3 trees resemble the rafts that are annually brought down from the interior of the country by the great rivers of North America, which are drifted out of their course, become water-logged, and sink into the bed of the river." The strata in the neighbourhood of Brook Point consist of hard pale sandstone ; blocks of which be come disintegrated and lie scattered on the shore. But the fish palates and scales are usually found on the strand on a level with the Pine Raft, probably washed out of the more loose sand deposits which occur in the cliff. The upheaval which has elevated the Wealden beds traverses the Island nearly east and west, and is hidden beneath the superincumbent strata to the east of Atherfield Point as far as Sandown Bay, where they again come to the sur face, a short distance from where the Old Fort formerly stood — where Dr. Mantell has placed the axis of upheaval — forming with its low cliffs the sea face of the parish of Yaverland. The lowest beds at Brook Point, at the base of the cliff, are a white or pale grey sandstone, with fucoidal markings, containing iron pyrites, being almost un fossiliferous ; detached bones of reptiles are some times found in it. The beds are described as very irregular at the Point, where they have been subjected to great pressure, but they change their mineral character at short distances. The sandy beds become calcareous, and similar to the irregular beds of waving sandstone which rest on them. Above the sandstone is a bed of hard red marl, which, although it dis appears at the Point, makes its appearance again on the shore fifteen or twenty feet further eastward. Near 

 P72  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000072.xml 
 48 the lower greensand. Fifteenth Division. Upper Clays and Sand Rock (n8feet). This division consists of forty feet of dark grey clays, with pyrites, separated by eighteen feet of white and fawn coloured sand, from a mass of clays and sands. The sand rises from the base of the cliff, about two hundred yards west of Rocken End, near which, it is said, material has been worked for glass house purposes. Sixteenth Division. Various Sands and Clays (ii 8 feet 4 inches). These constitute the remainder of the section, about half way up, in which is a bed of hard white sand, probably the same bed as that which appears at the base of the cliff on the shore at Rocken End. It there consists of eight or ten feet of hard white sand, with carbonaceous and ferruginous lines, and harder, irregular, ferruginous concretionary masses or bodies. This bed is at the top of the sandy deposits, and must constitute nearly the uppermost bed of the purely sandy deposits ; it is also nearly the uppermost bed of the Lower Greensand formation. It appears in the face of the cliff, rising at an angle of from 2^° to 3°, nearly as far as the top of Blackgang Chine, with blue clayey beds above. Ferruginous sands are the highest beds seen in the road, from South View House to the shore. 

 P45  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000045.xml 
 FOSSILS from the PERNA BEDS. Aauiilus jilicaiixS. Nautilus radialu.-, Cv/irzna anqutala J lielis ma(fir. Perna mvlleli .flolocysizs eleaaits AlVIyiilus eienLhdus 

 P30  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000030.xml 
 16 WEALDEN FORMATION, prevailing atmospheric condition of the country, from the undulated surfaces of the laminated sandstones and shales, and from the stems of the fossil trees. In the former we have proof that, when the land of the Iguanodon existed, the water was rippled by the breezes which then, as now, varied in intensity and direction in a brief space ; from the latter we learn that in certain situations the wind blew from a par ticular quarter for a great part of the year, and that the mean annual temperature was as variable as in modern times. " If we attempt to portray the vertebrated animals of that unknown country, our description will partake more of the character of a romance of the fabulous ages, than of a legitimate deduction from established facts. Turtles of various kinds must have been seen on the banks and in the waters of its rivers and lakes, and groups of enormous crocodiles basking in its fens and marshes. The colossal Megalosaurus and Pelorosaurus, and yet more marvellous Iguanodon, to whom the groves of clathrariæ and arborescent ferns would be mere beds of reeds, must have been of such prodigious magnitude, that the existing animal creation presents us with no fit objects of comparison. Imagine an animal of the lizard tribe, three or four times as large as the largest alligator, with jaws and teeth equal in size to those of the rhinoceros, and with legs as massive in their proportions as the limbs of the elephant — such a creature must have been the Iguanodon. " From what has been advanced it must not, how ever, be supposed that the country of the Iguanodon occupied the site of the south-east of England, and 

 P208  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000208.xml 
  

 P222  File:  z:\\decrypted\002670581\ALTO\002670581_000222.xml 
 164 TERTIARY SERIES. limits of the portion of its bed which still remains can be traced on the surface by means of the greater luxuriance of the vegetation which it supports. The thick limestone of the Upper Headon series formed its banks on the east side up to the commencement of the lane, whence it extended on the south beyond its present termination on the edge of the cliff. Helix nemoralis, H. rotundata, Gyclostoma elegans, with occasional Bulimus lubricus and Pupa muscorum are the most abun dant land-shells, and occur throughout. In the loam are Succinea and Limnæa, and in the lower part a small Planorbis and fragments of Unio. In addition to the above the following shells were noticed by Professor E. Forbes, viz. : — * Helix arbnrstom (or Zua lubrica nemoralis) ,, pnlcliella Achatina acicnla Clansilia ,, ericetorum ,, cellaria Pisidium Limnæa palustris Succinea oblonga Cyclas ,, hispida ,, hor ten sis Subaerial Beds of St. Catherine's Down. " Beds partly similar in origin to those of Totlands Bay occur on the summit of the cliff, between Rocken End and St. Catherine's Down. In this locality the beds are formed of hard calcareous mud, derived apparently from the Chalk Down to the northward, and becoming more indurated and mud-like, as well as of a darker colour, towards the bottom of the deposit. * Mem. Geol. Surv., Bristow, Isle of Wight, 1862, p. 9S and 99.